The following is a summary of the relations between the roles, functions and entity types of the book "Health Information Systems - Technological and Management Perspectives".

3LGM² Tool is based on 3LGM².
3LGM² Logical Tool Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Application Component.
3LGM² Software Product is associated with 3LGM² Application Component.
3LGM² Logical Tool Layer component 3LGM² Application Component.
3LGM²-M has the entity type component 3LGM²-B.
3LGM²-M component 3LGM²-B.
3LGM² Logical Tool Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Communication Interface.
3LGM² Application Component is associated with 3LGM² Communication Interface.
3LGM² Communication Link is associated with 3LGM² Communication Interface.
3LGM² Logical Tool Layer component 3LGM² Communication Interface.
3LGM² Logical Tool Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Communication Link.
3LGM² Logical Tool Layer component 3LGM² Communication Link.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Data Transmission Connection.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer component 3LGM² Data Transmission Connection.
3LGM² has the entity type component 3LGM² Domain Layer.
3LGM² component 3LGM² Domain Layer.
3LGM² Application Component is associated with 3LGM² Enterprise Function.
3LGM² Domain Layer is associated with 3LGM² Enterprise Function.
3LGM² Information Process is associated with 3LGM² Enterprise Function.
3LGM² Domain Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Information Process has the entity type component 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Communication Interface is associated with 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Communication Link is associated with 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Message Type is associated with 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Enterprise Function updates 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Enterprise Function uses 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Enterprise Function accesses 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Domain Layer component 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Information Process component 3LGM² Entity Type.
3LGM² Domain Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Information Process.
3LGM² Domain Layer component 3LGM² Information Process.
3LGM² has the entity type component 3LGM² Interlayer Relationship.
3LGM² component 3LGM² Interlayer Relationship.
3LGM² has the entity type component 3LGM² Intralayer Relationship.
3LGM² component 3LGM² Intralayer Relationship.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Location.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer component 3LGM² Location.
3LGM² has the entity type component 3LGM² Logical Tool Layer.
3LGM² component 3LGM² Logical Tool Layer.
3LGM²-M has the entity type component 3LGM²-M Communication Standard.
3LGM²-M component 3LGM²-M Communication Standard.
3LGM²-M has the entity type component 3LGM²-M Message Type.
3LGM²-M component 3LGM²-M Message Type.
3LGM² Domain Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Organizational Unit.
3LGM² Domain Layer component 3LGM² Organizational Unit.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Physical Data Processing System.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer component 3LGM² Physical Data Processing System.
3LGM² has the entity type component 3LGM² Physical Tool Layer.
3LGM² component 3LGM² Physical Tool Layer.
3LGM²-S has the entity type component 3LGM²-S Invoking Interface.
3LGM²-S component 3LGM²-S Invoking Interface.
3LGM²-S has the entity type component 3LGM²-S Providing Interface.
3LGM²-S component 3LGM²-S Providing Interface.
3LGM²-S has the entity type component 3LGM²-S Service.
3LGM²-S component 3LGM²-S Service.
3LGM²-S has the entity type component 3LGM²-S Service Class.
3LGM²-S component 3LGM²-S Service Class.
3LGM² Logical Tool Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Software Product.
3LGM² Logical Tool Layer component 3LGM² Software Product.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Tool Class.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer component 3LGM² Tool Class.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer has the entity type component 3LGM² Transmitting Medium.
3LGM² Data Transmission Connection is associated with 3LGM² Transmitting Medium.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer component 3LGM² Transmitting Medium.
Best-of-Breed-Architecture is associated with ACn Style.
CP1 Style is associated with ACn Style.
Access Control System supports Access Control Management.
Archiving of Patient Information has the function component Administration and Allocation of Patient Records.
Archiving of Patient Information component Administration and Allocation of Patient Records.
Administrative Admission updates Administrative Patient Data.
Administrative Admission uses Administrative Patient Data.
Administrative Admission accesses Administrative Patient Data.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Annual IT Budget.
2-tier Architecture has the entity type component Application Server.
2-tier Architecture component Application Server.
Administrative Admission uses Appointment.
Administrative Admission accesses Appointment.
Architecture of an Information System is based on Architectural Style.
ACID has the entity type component Atomicity.
ACID component Atomicity.
Administrative Admission updates Bed.
Administrative Admission uses Bed.
Administrative Admission accesses Bed.
Business Process Model is associated with Behavioral Perspective.
Administrative Discharge and Billing updates Bill.
Administrative Discharge and Billing accesses Bill.
Business Process Reference Model is based on Business Process Metamodel.
Business Reference Model has the entity type component Business Process Model.
Business Reference Model component Business Process Model.
Chief Executive Officer is responsible for Business Strategy.
Administrative Admission updates Case.
Administrative Discharge and Billing updates Case.
Administrative Admission uses Case.
Administrative Discharge and Billing uses Case.
Appointment Scheduling uses Case.
Administrative Admission accesses Case.
Administrative Discharge and Billing accesses Case.
Appointment Scheduling accesses Case.
Certification by CCHIT uses CCHIT Functional Criterion.
Certification by CCHIT accesses CCHIT Functional Criterion.
CCOW is responsible for CCOW Standard.
CCHIT is responsible for Certification by CCHIT.
Chief Information Officer is associated with Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Information Officer is associated with Chief Financial Officer.
ACID has the entity type component Consistency.
ACID component Consistency.
CCOW Standard is associated with Contextual Integration.
Administrative Admission uses Cost Unit.
Administrative Discharge and Billing uses Cost Unit.
Administrative Admission accesses Cost Unit.
Administrative Discharge and Billing accesses Cost Unit.
AC1 Style is associated with DB1 Style.
Best-of-Breed-Architecture is associated with DBn Style.
Business Reference Model has the entity type component Data Model.
Business Reference Model component Data Model.
2-tier Architecture has the entity type component Database Server.
2-tier Architecture component Database Server.
Analysis and Assessment of the Current HIS State updates Description of the Current HIS State.
Analysis and Assessment of the Current HIS State uses Description of the Current HIS State.
Analysis and Assessment of the Current HIS State accesses Description of the Current HIS State.
1999/93/EG is associated with Document Archiving System.
Administrative Discharge and Billing updates DRG.
Administrative Discharge and Billing accesses DRG.
ACID has the entity type component Durability.
ACID component Durability.
Approval to a Study is associated with Research and Education Function.
Activity is associated with Enterprise Function.
Application Component supports Enterprise Function.
Certification by EuroRec updates EuroRec EHR Quality Seal.
Certification by EuroRec accesses EuroRec EHR Quality Seal.
Catering updates Food.
Catering uses Food.
Catering accesses Food.
Business Process Model is associated with Functional Perspective.
ADT has the entity type component HL7 Event Description.
ADT component HL7 Event Description.
ADT has the entity type component HL7 Message Header.
ADT component HL7 Message Header.
ADT has the entity type component HL7 Patient Identification.
ADT component HL7 Patient Identification.
ADT has the entity type component HL7 Patient Visit Information.
ADT component HL7 Patient Visit Information.
CCOW is responsible for HL7 Standard.
Administrative Admission is associated with Health Care Professional.
Application Component is associated with Heterogeneity of the HIS Architecture.
Ad Hoc Monitoring uses HIS Component.
Ad Hoc Monitoring accesses HIS Component.
Application Component is associated with Homogeneity of the HIS Architecture.
Application Component supports Hospital Function.
Business Intelligence System supports Hospital Management.
Administration of Human Resource Master Data updates Human Resource.
Administration of Human Resource Master Data uses Human Resource.
Administration of Human Resource Master Data accesses Human Resource.
Certification by ISO updates ISO 9001.
Certification by ISO accesses ISO 9001.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Information Management.
3LGM² Tool supports Information Management.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Department of Information management.
Business Reference Model has the entity type component Information Processing Model.
Business Reference Model component Information Processing Model.
Certification by CCHIT updates Inpatient EHR Certification.
Certification by CCHIT accesses Inpatient EHR Certification.
ACID has the entity type component Isolation.
ACID component Isolation.
Ad Hoc Monitoring updates IT Evaluation Study.
Ad Hoc Monitoring accesses IT Evaluation Study.
Administration of Human Resource Master Data updates Key Performance Indicator.
Administration of Human Resource Master Data accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Archiving of Patient Information has the function component Long Term Archiving.
Archiving of Patient Information component Long Term Archiving.
Asynchronous Communication is associated with Master Application Component.
Appointment Scheduling updates Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Appointment Scheduling accesses Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
3LGM² Message Type is associated with Message.
Administrative Discharge and Billing updates Notification.
Administrative Discharge and Billing accesses Notification.
3LGM² Entity Type is associated with Object Class.
Archiving of Patient Information has the function component Opening a Patient Record.
Archiving of Patient Information component Opening a Patient Record.
Appointment Scheduling uses Order.
Appointment Scheduling accesses Order.
Business Reference Model has the entity type component Organizational Model.
Business Reference Model component Organizational Model.
Business Process Model is associated with Organizational Perspective.
3LGM² Organizational System is associated with Organizational Plan.
Certification by CCHIT updates Outpatient EHR Certification.
Certification by CCHIT accesses Outpatient EHR Certification.
Appointment Scheduling updates Patient.
Appointment Scheduling uses Patient.
Appointment Scheduling accesses Patient.
Administrative Discharge and Billing uses Patient Care Entity Type.
Administrative Discharge and Billing accesses Patient Care Entity Type.
Administrative Discharge and Billing uses Patient History.
Administrative Discharge and Billing accesses Patient History.
Administrative Patient Data has the entity type component Patient Insurance Data.
Administrative Patient Data component Patient Insurance Data.
CCOW Standard is associated with Patient Link.
Archiving of Patient Information uses Patient Record.
Archiving of Patient Information accesses Patient Record.
Administration and Allocation of Patient Records updates Patient Record Archive.
Administration and Allocation of Patient Records uses Patient Record Archive.
Administration and Allocation of Patient Records accesses Patient Record Archive.
Administrative Admission updates Patient Transport.
Administrative Admission uses Patient Transport.
Administrative Admission accesses Patient Transport.
Administrative Patient Data has the entity type component Patient’s Relatives.
Administrative Patient Data component Patient’s Relatives.
Application Component is associated with Physical Data Processing System.
Ad Hoc Monitoring updates Project.
Ad Hoc Monitoring accesses Project.
Adoption of Project Result uses Project Result.
Adoption of Project Result accesses Project Result.
1999/93/EG is associated with Qualified Electronic Signature.
Appointment Scheduling updates Resource.
Appointment Scheduling uses Resource.
Appointment Scheduling accesses Resource.
CCOW Standard is associated with Single-Sign-On.
3LGM²-S is associated with SOA.
CP1 Style is associated with SOA.
Annual Hospital Operating Cost has the entity type component Staff Cost.
Annual Hospital Operating Cost component Staff Cost.
CEN is responsible for Standardization by CEN.
Archiving updates Storage Medium.
Archiving accesses Storage Medium.
Business Strategy has the entity type component Strategic Goal of the Institution.
Business Strategy component Strategic Goal of the Institution.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Strategic Information Management Plan.
Approval to Strategic Information Management Plan updates Strategic Information Management Plan.
Approval to Strategic Information Management Plan accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
3LGM² Tool supports Structural Quality Assessment.
3-tier Architecture has the entity type component T3 Application Server.
3-tier Architecture component T3 Application Server.
3-tier Architecture has the entity type component T3 Database Server.
3-tier Architecture component T3 Database Server.
Appointment Scheduling uses Transfer.
Appointment Scheduling accesses Transfer.
Administrative Patient Data has the entity type component Transfer Diagnosis.
Administrative Patient Data component Transfer Diagnosis.
3LGM² Enterprise Function is associated with UML Class.
3LGM² is based on UML Class Diagram.
Best-of-Breed-Architecture is associated with Vn Style.
1999/93/EG chapter Document Archiving System.
1-tier Architecture chapter Distribution of Computing Power: Mainframes vs. Client-Server.
2-tier Architecture chapter Distribution of Computing Power: Mainframes vs. Client-Server.
Communication Standard is associated with 3LGM²-M Communication Standard.
DBn Style is associated with ACn Style.
Clinical Pathway has the entity type component Activity.
Enterprise Function is associated with Activity.
Clinical Pathway component Activity.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System supports Appointment Scheduling.
Document Archiving System supports Archiving of Patient Information.
Communication Server is associated with Asynchronous Communication.
Document Archiving System is associated with Authenticity of Data.
Computing Center Manager is responsible for Availability of Application Components.
Document Archiving System is associated with Availability of Data.
Cost Accounting uses Bill.
Cost Accounting accesses Bill.
Enterprise Resource Planning System supports Billing of Accountable Services.
Coding of Diagnoses uses Case.
Coding of Procedures uses Case.
Decision Making and Patient Information uses Case.
Coding of Diagnoses accesses Case.
Coding of Procedures accesses Case.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses Case.
Controlling uses Case Mix Index.
Controlling accesses Case Mix Index.
EuroRec is responsible for Certification by EuroRec.
Decision Making and Patient Information updates Clinical Pathway.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses Clinical Pathway.
COBIT is associated with COBIT Processes for IT Governance.
Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures has the function component Coding of Diagnoses.
Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures component Coding of Diagnoses.
Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures has the function component Coding of Procedures.
Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures component Coding of Procedures.
Computer-Based Nursing Form has the entity type component Communication Ability.
Computer-Based Nursing Form component Communication Ability.
Communication Network is based on Communication Protocol.
DBn Style is associated with Communication Server.
Computer-Supported Information System has the entity type component Computer-Based Tool.
Computer-Supported Information System component Computer-Based Tool.
Computing Center is associated with Computer-Supported Information System.
Clinical Information System has the entity type component Computerized Physician Order Entry System.
Clinical Information System component Computerized Physician Order Entry System.
Computing Center Manager is responsible for Computing Center.
Enterprise Resource Planning System supports Controlling.
Controlling updates Controlling Report.
Controlling accesses Controlling Report.
Controlling uses Cost of Treatment.
Controlling accesses Cost of Treatment.
Cost Accounting uses Cost Unit.
Cost Accounting accesses Cost Unit.
DICOM Standard is associated with Data Integration.
EDIFACT is associated with Data Integration.
Data Reference Model is based on Data Metamodel.
Data Security Officer is responsible for Data Security.
Enterprise Resource Planning System communicates with Data Warehouse System.
Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment has the function component Decision Making and Patient Information.
Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment component Decision Making and Patient Information.
Computer-Based Nursing Form has the entity type component Diagnosis.
Diagnosis Class has the entity type component Diagnosis.
Discharge Summary has the entity type component Diagnosis.
Coding of Diagnoses updates Diagnosis.
Decision Making and Patient Information updates Diagnosis.
Controlling uses Diagnosis.
Decision Making and Patient Information uses Diagnosis.
Coding of Diagnoses accesses Diagnosis.
Controlling accesses Diagnosis.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses Diagnosis.
Computer-Based Nursing Form component Diagnosis.
Diagnosis Class component Diagnosis.
Discharge Summary component Diagnosis.
Coding of Diagnoses uses Diagnosis Class.
Controlling uses Diagnosis Class.
DRG Calculation uses Diagnosis Class.
Coding of Diagnoses accesses Diagnosis Class.
Controlling accesses Diagnosis Class.
DRG Calculation accesses Diagnosis Class.
DICOM Standard has the entity type component DICOM File Format.
DICOM Standard component DICOM File Format.
DICOM Standard has the entity type component DICOM Message Format.
DICOM Standard component DICOM Message Format.
DICOM Standard has the entity type component DICOM Network Protocol.
DICOM Standard component DICOM Network Protocol.
DICOM Standard has the entity type component DICOM Service.
DICOM Standard component DICOM Service.
Document Archiving System is associated with Document Standard.
DRG Calculation updates DRG.
DRG Calculation accesses DRG.
EN12538 is based on EDIFACT.
EN12539 is based on EDIFACT.
EN1613 is based on EDIFACT.
Data Model has the entity type component Entity Type Modeling Element.
Data Model component Entity Type Modeling Element.
Data Model has the entity type component Entity Type Relation Modeling Element.
Data Model component Entity Type Relation Modeling Element.
Data Warehouse System supports Execution of Clinical Trials.
Clinical Data Warehouse supports Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments.
CT Scanner supports Execution of Radiological Procedures.
Decision Making and Patient Information uses External Finding.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses External Finding.
Cost Accounting uses Facility and Area.
Cost Accounting accesses Facility and Area.
Enterprise Resource Planning System supports Facility Management.
Data Warehouse System typical feature Analyze data.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Assign doctors to patients or rooms.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Assign staff to patients or outpatient units.
Document Archiving System typical feature Attach digital signatures.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System typical feature Calculate dosage of drugs.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Creating a roster.
Document Archiving System typical feature Import documents.
Document Archiving System typical feature Index document content.
Data Warehouse System typical feature Integrate data from different application components.
Document Archiving System typical feature Manage storage formats.
Document Archiving System typical feature Manage storage media.
Communication Server typical feature message queuing.
Communication Server typical feature multicasting.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System typical feature Printing of Labels.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide a collection of internal processes and regulations.
Document Archiving System typical feature Provide access to archived information.
Coding System typical feature Provide catalogs and other means for coding of nursing diagnosis.
Coding System typical feature Provide catalogs and other means for coding of nursing procedures.
Coding System typical feature Provide catalogs and other means for coding patient-related procedures.
Coding System typical feature Provide catalogs and other means for coding patients’ diagnoses.
Coding System typical feature Provide catalogs and other means for coding radiological diagnoses.
Coding System typical feature Provide catalogs and other means for coding radiological procedures.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System typical feature Provide drug catalogs.
Coding System typical feature Provide forms for preparing a bill for the patient insurance.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for accounts payable.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for accounts receivable.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for asset accounting.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for control of security issues.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for cost center accounting.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for cost element accounting.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for creating a roster.
Coding System typical feature Provide means for creating statistics.
Data Warehouse System typical feature Provide means for data mining.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for editing and graphically illustrating collections of internal processes and regulations.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for general ledger accounting.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for incident tracking.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for managing and monitoring disposal.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for managing logistics.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for managing outpatient unit's staff.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for managing ward staff.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System typical feature Provide means for minimizing adverse drug events.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for order management.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for organizing career development.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for organizing recruitment.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for organizing training.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for overhead cost management.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for performance evaluation.
Data Warehouse System typical feature Provide means for recruiting of patients.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System typical feature Provide means for scheduling a patient ’s appointment.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Provide means for stock keeping.
Coding System typical feature Provide means for verifying coding done in departments.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System typical feature Provide orders for patient-related drugs.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System typical feature Provide orders for patient-related examinations.
Document Archiving System typical feature Scan documents.
Coding System typical feature scoring of the patient.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System typical feature Select orders from order sets.
Data Warehouse System typical feature structure data.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System typical feature view patient related appointments.
Enterprise Resource Planning System typical feature Work scheduling.
Enterprise Resource Planning System supports Financial Accounting.
Controlling has the function component Financial Controlling.
Controlling component Financial Controlling.
Clinical Research uses Finding.
Decision Making and Patient Information uses Finding.
Clinical Research accesses Finding.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses Finding.
Clinical Department is associated with HIS Stakeholder.
Computer-Based Application Component supports Hospital Function.
Data Warehouse System supports Hospital Management.
Enterprise Resource Planning System supports Human Resource Management.
Enterprise Function updates Information System.
Enterprise Function uses Information System.
Enterprise Function accesses Information System.
Decision Making and Patient Information updates Informed Consent.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses Informed Consent.
Document Archiving System is associated with Integrity of Data.
Designing Customer-Centered Services updates IT Service.
Delivering of Customer-Centered Services uses IT Service.
Delivering of Customer-Centered Services accesses IT Service.
Designing Customer-Centered Services accesses IT Service.
Controlling Report has the entity type component Key Performance Indicator.
COBIT is associated with Key Performance Indicator.
Controlling updates Key Performance Indicator.
Cost Accounting updates Key Performance Indicator.
Controlling uses Key Performance Indicator.
Cost Accounting uses Key Performance Indicator.
Controlling accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Cost Accounting accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Controlling Report component Key Performance Indicator.
Data Protection is associated with Legal Requirement.
Ethernet is based on Logical Network Topology.
Consultant is associated with Long-Term HIS Planning.
Clinical Department is involved in Long-Term HIS Planning.
Controlling has the function component Material Controlling.
Controlling component Material Controlling.
Decision Making and Patient Information uses Medical Anamnesis.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses Medical Anamnesis.
Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment has the function component Medical and Nursing Care Planning.
Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment component Medical and Nursing Care Planning.
Decision Making and Patient Information uses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Clinical Information System has the entity type component Medical Documentation System.
Clinical Information System component Medical Documentation System.
Decision Making and Patient Information uses Medical Knowledge.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses Medical Knowledge.
Coding of Procedures uses Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Coding of Procedures accesses Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Clinical Information System has the entity type component Nursing Management and Documentation System.
Clinical Information System component Nursing Management and Documentation System.
Coding of Procedures uses Nursing Procedure.
Coding of Procedures accesses Nursing Procedure.
Computer-Based Nursing Form has the entity type component Nutrition.
Computer-Based Nursing Form component Nutrition.
Departmental System Administrator is responsible for Operational Information Management.
Computerized Physician Order Entry System supports Order Entry.
Computer-Based Nursing Form has the entity type component Orientation.
Computer-Based Nursing Form component Orientation.
Clinical Information System has the entity type component Outpatient Management System.
Clinical Information System component Outpatient Management System.
Coding of Diagnoses uses Patient.
Coding of Procedures uses Patient.
Decision Making and Patient Information uses Patient.
Coding of Diagnoses accesses Patient.
Coding of Procedures accesses Patient.
Decision Making and Patient Information accesses Patient.
Enterprise Resource Planning System communicates with Patient Administration System.
DRG Calculation uses Patient Age.
DRG Calculation accesses Patient Age.
Computing Center Manager is responsible for Performance of Application Components.
Computer-Based Nursing Form has the entity type component Personal Hygiene.
Computer-Based Nursing Form component Personal Hygiene.
Coding of Procedures updates Knowledge about Procedure.
Coding of Procedures accesses Knowledge about Procedure.
Coding of Procedures uses Procedure Class.
Controlling uses Procedure Class.
DRG Calculation uses Procedure Class.
Coding of Procedures accesses Procedure Class.
Controlling accesses Procedure Class.
DRG Calculation accesses Procedure Class.
Controlling has the function component Process Controlling.
Controlling component Process Controlling.
Controlling uses Quality.
Controlling accesses Quality.
Enterprise Resource Planning System supports Quality Management.
Computer-Based Application Component is associated with Quality of Computer-Based Application Components and Their Integration.
Discharge Summary has the entity type component Recommendations for Further Treatment.
Discharge Summary component Recommendations for Further Treatment.
Establishing Referential Integrity updates Referential Integrity.
Establishing Referential Integrity accesses Referential Integrity.
Digital Dictation System supports Report Writing.
Data Warehouse System supports Research and Education.
Education uses Resource.
Education accesses Resource.
Cost Accounting uses Service.
Cost Accounting accesses Service.
Contextual Integration is associated with Single-Sign-On.
Computer-Based Nursing Form has the entity type component Social Contact.
Computer-Based Nursing Form component Social Contact.
Computing Center Manager is responsible for Stability of Application Components.
Controlling has the function component Staff Controlling.
Controlling component Staff Controlling.
Continuous HIS Auditing uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Continuous HIS Auditing accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Enterprise Resource Planning System supports Supply and Disposal Management.
Computer-Based Nursing Form has the entity type component Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Controlling uses Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Controlling accesses Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Computer-Based Nursing Form component Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
EDIFACT is associated with Transinstitutional Health Information System.
Discharge Summary has the entity type component Treatment Text.
Discharge Summary component Treatment Text.
DB1 Style is associated with V1 Style.
Computer-Based Nursing Form has the entity type component Vital Sign.
Computer-Based Nursing Form component Vital Sign.
DBn Style is associated with Vn Style.
Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Activity Modeling Element.
Event-Driven Process Chain component Activity Modeling Element.
Human Resource Management has the function component Administration of Business Trips and Further Training.
Human Resource Management component Administration of Business Trips and Further Training.
Human Resource Management has the function component Administration of Human Resource Master Data.
Human Resource Management component Administration of Human Resource Master Data.
HIS Budget Planning updates Annual IT Budget.
HIS Budget Planning accesses Annual IT Budget.
First Study Design uses Approval to a Study.
First Study Design accesses Approval to a Study.
Financial Accounting has the function component Asset Accounting.
Financial Accounting component Asset Accounting.
Financing of Health Care uses BPflV.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management uses BPflV.
Financing of Health Care accesses BPflV.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management accesses BPflV.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management uses BDSG.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management accesses BDSG.
Hospital Management uses Bed Occupation.
Human Resource Management uses Bed Occupation.
Hospital Management accesses Bed Occupation.
Human Resource Management accesses Bed Occupation.
HIS Benchmarking uses Best-Practice-Benchmark.
HIS Benchmarking accesses Best-Practice-Benchmark.
Financial Accounting uses Bill.
Financial Accounting accesses Bill.
Hospital Management uses Business Strategy.
Hospital Management accesses Business Strategy.
Execution of Nursing Procedures updates Case.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures uses Case.
Execution of Nursing Procedures uses Case.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures accesses Case.
Execution of Nursing Procedures accesses Case.
Hospital’s Board of Directors includes Chief Executive Officer.
Hospital’s Board of Directors component Chief Executive Officer.
Hospital’s Board of Directors includes Chief Financial Officer.
Hospital’s Board of Directors component Chief Financial Officer.
ISO TR 22221 is associated with Clinical Data Warehouse.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments updates Clinical Pathway.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments accesses Clinical Pathway.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments updates Clinical Trial.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments uses Clinical Trial.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments accesses Clinical Trial.
HIS Architecture has the entity type component Computer-Based Tool.
HIS Architecture component Computer-Based Tool.
Hospital Management uses Controlling Report.
Hospital Management accesses Controlling Report.
Hospital Management uses Cost of Treatment.
Hospital Management accesses Cost of Treatment.
Financial Accounting has the function component Credit Accounting.
Financial Accounting component Credit Accounting.
Federated Database System is associated with Data Integration.
HL7 CDA is associated with Data Integration.
ISO/IEEE 11073 Family of Standards is associated with Data Integration.
Federated Database System has the entity type component Database System.
Federated Database System component Database System.
Financial Accounting has the function component Debtor Accounting.
Financial Accounting component Debtor Accounting.
Health Care Professional is involved in Decision Making and Patient Information.
Health Care Professional is involved in Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment.
Execution of Nursing Procedures uses Diagnosis.
Execution of Nursing Procedures accesses Diagnosis.
Hospital Billing uses Diagnosis Class.
Hospital Billing accesses Diagnosis Class.
IHE is associated with DICOM Standard.
Health Insurance Company is responsible for Disease Management.
ISO 14721 is associated with Document Archiving System.
HIS Certification uses EFQM Excellence Model.
HIS Certification accesses EFQM Excellence Model.
Functional Model has the entity type component Enterprise Function Modeling Element.
Functional Model component Enterprise Function Modeling Element.
Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Entity Type Modeling Element.
Event-Driven Process Chain component Entity Type Modeling Element.
First Study Design updates Evaluation Method.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study uses Evaluation Method.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study accesses Evaluation Method.
First Study Design accesses Evaluation Method.
Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Event Modeling Element.
Event-Driven Process Chain component Event Modeling Element.
Imaging Modality supports Execution of Radiological Procedures.
Facility Management updates Facility and Area.
Facility Management uses Facility and Area.
Facility Management accesses Facility and Area.
Federated Database System has the entity type component Federated Database Schema.
Federated Database System component Federated Database Schema.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures updates Finding.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures accesses Finding.
Hospital Information System supports Fulfillment of Strategic Hospital Goal.
General Practitioner is associated with General Practice.
Health Care Network includes General Practice.
Health Care Network component General Practice.
Health Care Network includes Governmental Authority.
Health Care Network component Governmental Authority.
HL7 Version 3 has the entity type component HL7 CDA.
HL7 Version 3 component HL7 CDA.
HL7 Message Type Event Type Combination has the entity type component HL7 Event Type.
HL7 Version 2 has the entity type component HL7 Event Type.
HL7 Message Type Event Type Combination component HL7 Event Type.
HL7 Version 2 component HL7 Event Type.
HL7 Message Type Event Type Combination has the entity type component HL7 Message Type.
HL7 Version 2 has the entity type component HL7 Message Type.
HL7 Message Type Event Type Combination component HL7 Message Type.
HL7 Version 2 component HL7 Message Type.
HL7 Version 3 is based on HL7 Reference Information Model.
IHE is associated with HL7 Standard.
HL7 Version 3 has the entity type component HL7 Version 3 Message.
HL7 Version 3 component HL7 Version 3 Message.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments uses Health Care Regulation.
Hospital Management uses Health Care Regulation.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments accesses Health Care Regulation.
Hospital Management accesses Health Care Regulation.
Health Care Network includes Health Insurance Company.
Health Care Network component Health Insurance Company.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management uses Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management accesses Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
HIS Benchmarking updates HIS Benchmarking Method.
HIS Benchmarking uses HIS Benchmarking Method.
HIS Benchmarking accesses HIS Benchmarking Method.
HIS Certification uses HIS Certificate.
HIS Certification accesses HIS Certificate.
Hospital Information System has the entity type component HIS Component.
Hospital Information System component HIS Component.
HIS Certification increases HIS Quality.
Evaluation Method is associated with HIS Quality.
HIS Certification uses HIS Quality.
HIS Certification accesses HIS Quality.
HIS Certification changes HIS Quality.
Health Care Network includes Home Care Institution.
Health Care Network component Home Care Institution.
Health Care Network includes Hospital.
Health Care Network component Hospital.
Hospital Management uses Hospital Budget.
Hospital Management accesses Hospital Budget.
Hospital Management updates Hospital Business Plan.
Hospital Management accesses Hospital Business Plan.
Hospital Budget has the entity type component Hospital Cost.
Hospital Management uses Hospital Cost.
Hospital Management accesses Hospital Cost.
Hospital Budget component Hospital Cost.
Hospital Budget has the entity type component Hospital Revenue.
Hospital Budget component Hospital Revenue.
Hospital Management uses Hospital Service.
Hospital Management uses Hospital's Service.
Hospital Management accesses Hospital Service.
Hospital Management accesses Hospital's Service.
Hospital Business Plan has the entity type component Hospital Strategy.
Hospital Business Plan component Hospital Strategy.
Hospital Staff is associated with Human Resource.
Human Resource Management updates Human Resource.
Human Resource Management uses Human Resource.
Human Resource Management accesses Human Resource.
HIS Certification uses ISO 9001.
HIS Certification accesses ISO 9001.
ISO 9241 has the entity type component ISO 9241-110.
ISO 9241 component ISO 9241-110.
ISO 9241-110 has the entity type component ISO 9241-110 User Interface Design Quality.
ISO 9241-110 component ISO 9241-110 User Interface Design Quality.
IHE Connect-a-thon is associated with IHE.
IHE Integration Profile has the entity type component IHE Actor.
IHE Integration Profile component IHE Actor.
IHE Domain has the entity type component IHE Content Profile.
IHE Domain component IHE Content Profile.
IHE Technical Framework is associated with IHE Domain.
IHE Domain has the entity type component IHE Integration Profile.
IHE Domain component IHE Integration Profile.
IHE Integration Profile has the entity type component IHE Transaction.
IHE Integration Profile component IHE Transaction.
First-Level Support has the function component Incident Analysis.
First-Level Support component Incident Analysis.
First-Level Support has the function component Incident Taking.
First-Level Support component Incident Taking.
Hospital Administration has the function component Information Management.
Hospital Administration component Information Management.
HIS Benchmarking uses Information Management Cost.
HIS Benchmarking accesses Information Management Cost.
Hospital Management has the function component Information Management in Hospitals.
Hospital Management component Information Management in Hospitals.
Hospital Information System is associated with Information Processing.
Hospital Information System is associated with Information Storage.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments uses Informed Consent.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures uses Informed Consent.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments accesses Informed Consent.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures accesses Informed Consent.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management uses IuKDG.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management accesses IuKDG.
HIS Certification uses Joint Commission’s Certification Program.
HIS Certification accesses Joint Commission’s Certification Program.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study updates Key Performance Indicator.
Facility Management updates Key Performance Indicator.
Financial Accounting updates Key Performance Indicator.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study uses Key Performance Indicator.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Facility Management accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Financial Accounting accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management uses KHStatV.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management accesses KHStatV.
Financing of Health Care uses KHRG.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management uses KHRG.
Financing of Health Care accesses KHRG.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management accesses KHRG.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments uses Legal Requirement.
Financial Accounting uses Legal Requirement.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments accesses Legal Requirement.
Financial Accounting accesses Legal Requirement.
Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Logical Operator Modeling Element.
Event-Driven Process Chain component Logical Operator Modeling Element.
Funding Institution is associated with Long-Term HIS Planning.
Hardware Vendor is involved in Long-Term HIS Planning.
HIS Certification uses Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award.
HIS Certification accesses Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award.
Health Care Professional is involved in Medical and Nursing Care Planning.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments updates Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures uses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Execution of Nursing Procedures uses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Execution of Nursing Procedures accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures updates Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures uses Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures accesses Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures uses Medication.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures accesses Medication.
Health Information System is associated with Model.
HIS Architecture has the entity type component Non-Computer-Based Information Processing Tool.
HIS Architecture component Non-Computer-Based Information Processing Tool.
Execution of Nursing Procedures updates Nursing Procedure.
Execution of Nursing Procedures uses Nursing Procedure.
Execution of Nursing Procedures accesses Nursing Procedure.
ISO 14721 is associated with OAIS3.
Event Counting Study has the entity type component Observation Protocol.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study updates Observation Protocol.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study accesses Observation Protocol.
Event Counting Study component Observation Protocol.
Execution of an Operation updates Operation Report.
Execution of an Operation accesses Operation Report.
Health Care Professional is responsible for Order.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures updates Order.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures uses Order.
Execution of Nursing Procedures uses Order.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures accesses Order.
Execution of Nursing Procedures accesses Order.
Hospital is responsible for Patient.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures uses Patient.
Execution of Nursing Procedures uses Patient.
Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures accesses Patient.
Execution of Nursing Procedures accesses Patient.
Hospital Administration has the function component Patient Administration.
Hospital Administration component Patient Administration.
Human Resource Management has the function component Payroll Accounting.
Human Resource Management component Payroll Accounting.
Health Care Network includes Pharmacy.
Health Care Network component Pharmacy.
HIS Infrastructure has the entity type component Physical Data Processing System.
HIS Infrastructure component Physical Data Processing System.
First-Level Support has the function component Problem Solving.
First-Level Support component Problem Solving.
Hospital Billing uses Procedure Class.
Hospital Billing accesses Procedure Class.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study uses Quality.
HIS Benchmarking uses Quality.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study accesses Quality.
HIS Benchmarking accesses Quality.
HIS Architecture is associated with Quality of HIS Architecture.
HIS Quality has the entity type component Quality of HIS Outcome.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management increases Quality of HIS Outcome.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management changes Quality of HIS Outcome.
HIS Quality component Quality of HIS Outcome.
HIS Quality has the entity type component Quality of HIS Processes.
HIS Quality component Quality of HIS Processes.
HIS Quality has the entity type component Quality of HIS Structures.
HIS Quality component Quality of HIS Structures.
HIS Quality is associated with Quality of Patient Care.
Hospital Management uses Quality Report.
Hospital Management accesses Quality Report.
Execution of Clinical Trials has the function component Recruitment of Patients.
Execution of Clinical Trials component Recruitment of Patients.
Health Care Network includes Rehabilitation Center.
Health Care Network component Rehabilitation Center.
Hospital is responsible for Resource.
Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Role Modeling Element.
Event-Driven Process Chain component Role Modeling Element.
HL7 CDA is associated with Semantic Integration.
ICD is associated with Semantic Integration.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management uses SGB V.
Fulfillment of Laws relevant to Information Management accesses SGB V.
Feature is associated with Software Product.
HIS Benchmarking uses Standard.
HIS Benchmarking accesses Standard.
Execution of Clinical Trials has the function component Statistical Evaluation of Patient Data.
Execution of Clinical Trials component Statistical Evaluation of Patient Data.
Hospital Strategy has the entity type component Strategic Hospital Goal.
Hospital Management updates Strategic Hospital Goal.
Fulfillment of Strategic Hospital Goal uses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Hospital Function uses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Fulfillment of Strategic Hospital Goal accesses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Hospital Function accesses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Hospital Management accesses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Hospital Strategy component Strategic Hospital Goal.
Hospital Management updates Strategic Information Management Plan.
Hospital Management uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Hospital Management accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Execution of a Quantitative Study uses Study Design.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study uses Study Design.
Execution of a Quantitative Study accesses Study Design.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study accesses Study Design.
Execution of a Quantitative Study updates Study Hypothesis.
Execution of a Quantitative Study accesses Study Hypothesis.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study uses Study Plan.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study accesses Study Plan.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study updates Study Result.
Execution of an IT Evaluation Study accesses Study Result.
Execution of Nursing Procedures uses Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Execution of Nursing Procedures accesses Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
HL7 Version 3 is associated with Transinstitutional Health Information System.
IHE Cross-Enterprise Document Sharing is associated with Transinstitutional Health Information System.
HIS Certification increases Transparency.
HIS Certification changes Transparency.
Human Resource Management has the function component Work Organization and Time Management.
Human Resource Management component Work Organization and Time Management.
First Study Design updates Written Agreement on the Study Outline.
First Study Design accesses Written Agreement on the Study Outline.
HL7 Version 3 Message is based on XML.
Document Archiving System book Health Information Systems Ontology.
Distribution of Computing Power: Mainframes vs. Client-Server book Health Information Systems Ontology.
Reference Model for the Domain Layer of Hospital Information Systems is associated with 3LGM² Domain Layer.
Reference Model for the Domain Layer of Hospital Information Systems is associated with 3LGM² Enterprise Function.
Reference Model for the Domain Layer of Hospital Information Systems has the entity type component 3LGM² Entity Type.
Reference Model for the Domain Layer of Hospital Information Systems component 3LGM² Entity Type.
Internal Quality Management updates Administrative Guideline.
Internal Quality Management accesses Administrative Guideline.
Information System has the entity type component Application Component.
Information Management uses Application Component.
Information Management accesses Application Component.
Information System component Application Component.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Patient Transport Service uses Appointment.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Patient Transport Service accesses Appointment.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan has the function component Approval to Strategic Information Management Plan.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan component Approval to Strategic Information Management Plan.
Information System is associated with Architecture of an Information System.
Information Management uses Architecture of an Information System.
Information Management accesses Architecture of an Information System.
Information System has the entity type component Business Process.
Information System component Business Process.
Information System Metamodel is associated with Business Process Model.
Information Management Board includes Chief Executive Officer.
Information Management Board component Chief Executive Officer.
Information Management Board includes Chief Information Officer.
Information Management Board component Chief Information Officer.
Internal Quality Management updates Clinical Pathway.
Internal Quality Management uses Clinical Pathway.
Internal Quality Management accesses Clinical Pathway.
Internal Quality Management uses Complaint.
Internal Quality Management accesses Complaint.
Information and Communication Technology has the entity type component Computer-Based Application Component.
Information and Communication Technology component Computer-Based Application Component.
Information and Communication Technology has the entity type component Computer Network.
Information and Communication Technology component Computer Network.
ITIL Service Lifecycle has the function component Continual Service Improvement.
ITIL Service Lifecycle component Continual Service Improvement.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan has the function component Creation of Strategic Information Management Plan.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan component Creation of Strategic Information Management Plan.
Information is associated with Data.
Information System is associated with Data.
Knowledge is associated with Data.
Information System Metamodel is associated with Data Model.
IT Service Management has the function component Delivering of Customer-Centered Services.
IT Service Management Staff is responsible for Delivering of Customer-Centered Services.
IT Service Management component Delivering of Customer-Centered Services.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan has the function component Deployment of Strategic Information Management Plan.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan component Deployment of Strategic Information Management Plan.
IT Service Management has the function component Designing Customer-Centered Services.
IT Service Management Staff is responsible for Designing Customer-Centered Services.
IT Service Management component Designing Customer-Centered Services.
Internal Quality Management uses Diagnosis Class.
Internal Quality Management accesses Diagnosis Class.
International DICOM Committee is responsible for DICOM Standard.
Integration Platform supports ensure contextual integration.
Integration Platform supports ensure functional integration.
Integration Platform supports ensure presentation integration.
IT Evaluation Study is based on Evaluation Method.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution has the function component Execution of an IT Evaluation Study.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution component Execution of an IT Evaluation Study.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Patient Transport Service uses Facility and Area.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Patient Transport Service accesses Facility and Area.
Integration Platform typical feature Service Combination.
Integration Platform typical feature Service Orchestration.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution has the function component First Study Design.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution component First Study Design.
Information System Metamodel is associated with Functional Model.
Integrated Care Network includes General Practice.
Integrated Care Network component General Practice.
Reference Model for the Domain Layer of Hospital Information Systems is based on HL7 Reference Information Model.
Internal Quality Management uses Health Care Regulation.
Internal Quality Management accesses Health Care Regulation.
Information Management Board includes HIS Stakeholder.
Information Management Board component HIS Stakeholder.
Integrated Care Network is associated with Home of the Patient.
Information Management uses hospital information system model.
Information Management accesses hospital information system model.
IT Service Management has the function component Improving Customer-Centered Services.
IT Service Management Staff is responsible for Improving Customer-Centered Services.
IT Service Management component Improving Customer-Centered Services.
Information and Knowledge Logistics is associated with Information.
Department of Information management is associated with Information Management Staff.
Infrastructure of an Information System has the entity type component Information Processing Tool.
Infrastructure of an Information System component Information Processing Tool.
IT Evaluation Study is associated with Information System Effectiveness.
IT Evaluation Study is associated with Information System Improvement.
IT Evaluation Study is associated with Information System Safety.
Integrated Care Network is responsible for Integrated Care.
Integrated HIS is associated with Integration.
Internal Reporting System supports Internal Quality Management.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution updates IT Evaluation Study.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution uses IT Evaluation Study.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution accesses IT Evaluation Study.
IT Evaluation Study is associated with IT Investment Justification.
ITIL Service Lifecycle updates IT Service.
ITIL Service Lifecycle uses IT Service.
ITIL Service Lifecycle accesses IT Service.
Information Management has the function component IT Service Management.
Information Management component IT Service Management.
ITIL Service Lifecycle is associated with ITIL.
IT Service Management uses ITIL.
IT Service Management accesses ITIL.
IT Service Management has the function component ITIL Service Lifecycle.
IT Service Management component ITIL Service Lifecycle.
Joint Commission is responsible for Joint Commission’s Certification Program.
Information and Knowledge Logistics is associated with Knowledge.
Information Management Operating Cost has the entity type component Maintenance Cost.
Information Management Operating Cost component Maintenance Cost.
Independent Health Record Bank supports management of electronic health records.
Internal Quality Management uses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Knowledge Retrieval and Literature Management uses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Internal Quality Management accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Knowledge Retrieval and Literature Management accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Internal Quality Management updates Medical Guideline.
Internal Quality Management accesses Medical Guideline.
ISO/OSI Reference Model is associated with Network Standard.
Integrated Care Network includes Nursing Center.
Integrated Care Network component Nursing Center.
Internal Quality Management updates Nursing Guideline.
Internal Quality Management accesses Nursing Guideline.
Case Identification Number is associated with Object Identity.
Information Management has the function component Operational Information Management.
IT Service Management is associated with Operational Information Management.
Information Management component Operational Information Management.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution has the function component Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution component Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan.
Information System Metamodel is associated with Organizational Model.
Inpatient Unit is associated with Patient.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Patient Transport Service uses Patient Transport.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Patient Transport Service accesses Patient Transport.
Information System has the entity type component Physical Data Processing System.
Information Management uses Physical Data Processing System.
Information Management accesses Physical Data Processing System.
Information System component Physical Data Processing System.
Internal Quality Management uses Procedure Class.
Internal Quality Management accesses Procedure Class.
IT Service Management has the function component Providing Customer-Centered Services.
IT Service Management Staff is responsible for Providing Customer-Centered Services.
IT Service Management component Providing Customer-Centered Services.
Internal Quality Management updates Quality Report.
Internal Quality Management uses Quality Report.
Internal Quality Management accesses Quality Report.
Integrated Care Network includes Rehabilitation Center.
Integrated Care Network component Rehabilitation Center.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution has the function component Report and Publication of Study.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution component Report and Publication of Study.
ITIL Service Lifecycle has the function component Service Design.
ITIL Service Lifecycle component Service Design.
ITIL Service Lifecycle has the function component Service Operation.
ITIL Service Lifecycle component Service Operation.
ITIL Service Lifecycle has the function component Service Strategy.
ITIL Service Lifecycle component Service Strategy.
ITIL Service Lifecycle has the function component Service Transition.
ITIL Service Lifecycle component Service Transition.
Information Management Operating Cost has the entity type component Staff Cost.
Information Management Operating Cost component Staff Cost.
Information Management in Health Care Networks uses Strategic Goal of the Network.
Information Management in Health Care Networks accesses Strategic Goal of the Network.
Information Management has the function component Strategic Information Management.
Information Management component Strategic Information Management.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution has the function component Study Exploration.
IT Evaluation Study Management and Execution component Study Exploration.
Information Management Operating Cost has the entity type component Support Cost.
Information Management Operating Cost component Support Cost.
Information Management has the function component Tactical Information Management.
Information Management component Tactical Information Management.
IT Service Management has the function component Trouble Shooting.
IT Service Management component Trouble Shooting.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan has the function component Updating the Strategic Information Management Plan.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan component Updating the Strategic Information Management Plan.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan has the function component Use of Strategic Information Management Plan.
Life Cycle Management of Strategic Information Management Plan component Use of Strategic Information Management Plan.
Information Desk is responsible for Visitor and Information Service.
Distribution of Computing Power: Mainframes vs. Client-Server subchapter of Taxonomy of Architectures at the Physical.
Change Management updates Application System.
Change Management uses ITIL Version 3.
Change Management uses Change Request.
Business Process has the entity type component Activity.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer has the entity type component Communication Link.
Communication Interface has the entity type component Communication Link.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Computing Center.
Business Process has the entity type component Event.
Consultant is responsible for Functional Specification Document.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Management of Information Systems.
3LGM² Organizational Unit is associated with Organizational Unit.
Change Management updates Requirement.
Communication Interface is associated with Standardization of Interfaces.
Business Process has the entity type component Tool.
3LGM² Communication Interface is associated with Communication Interface.
Consultant is involved in Customizing.
Business Process is associated with Enterprise Function.
Application System supports Enterprise Function.
3LGM² Physical Tool Layer has the entity type component Physical Data Processing System.
Business Process has the entity type component Control Structure.
Business Process has the entity type component Information Object.
Business Process has the entity type component Process Role.
Information System has the entity type component Application System.
Customizing updates Application System.
IT Service Management uses ITIL Version 2.
IT Service Management uses ITIL Version 3.
Customizing updates Software Product.
Customizing uses Software Product.
Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Activity.
Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Event.
Data is associated with Information.
Information Management updates Information System.
Information Management uses Information System.
Data is associated with Knowledge.
Information Management has the function component Operational Management of Information Systems.
Customizing uses Requirement.
Customizing updates Workflow Management.
Customizing uses Workflow Management.
Information System is associated with Enterprise Function.
Information Management has the function component Strategic Management of Information Systems.
Information Management has the function component System Analysis.
Information Management has the function component Tactical Management of Information Systems.
Customizing uses Authorization Concept.
Information System has the entity type component Computer-Based Part of Information System.
Customizing updates Costumization Report.
Information System has the entity type component Physical Data Processing Tool.
Customizing uses Process Reference Model.
Customizing uses Software Reference Model.
Customizing uses System Analysis Result.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Procurement Release.
Chief Information Officer is involved in CAB execution.
Chief Information Officer is involved in Jour Fixe Execution.
Chief Information Officer is involved in Jour-fixe Execution CEO.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for IT General Ledger Account Planning.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for IT strategy development.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Project Budget.
Chief Information Officer is involved in Project Budget Administration.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Project Presentation.
Chief Information Officer approves Project Definition.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Project Escalation.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for project waitlist.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Project Release.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Project Manager.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Project Manager Assignment.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Project Priorisation.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Project Monitoring.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Invoice Release.
Chief Information Officer is involved in Invoice Verification.
Chief Information Officer is involved in Ticket Evaluation.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Ticket Evaluation.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for Maintenance Contract Release.
Chief Information Officer is involved in Controlling.
Chief Financial Officer is responsible for Controlling.
Data Model is based on Entity-Relation-Notation.
Controlling uses measured value.
Controlling updates Strategic Gap.
Controlling updates strategic gap.
Controlling updates strategie gap.
Chief Information Officer is responsible for strategic information management.
Controlling increases Efficiency.
Event key Data Object Event Component.
Information Management has the function component Administrative Information Management Task.
Information Management uses Architecture.
Information Management uses Description Function of an Architecture.
Information Management increases Success Potential.
Information Management uses Information Engineering.
Information Management uses Information Behavior.
Information Management uses Information Behaviour.
Information Management uses information behavior.
Information Management has the function component IT Governance Function.
Information Management increases Performance Potential.
Information Management increases performance potential.
Information Management uses methodology of Information Management.
Information Management has the function component strategic information management.
Information Management uses information management goal.
Monolithic Architecture is associated with AC1 Style.
Monolithic Architecture is associated with ACn Style.
Medical Admission updates Admission Diagnosis.
Medical Admission uses Admission Diagnosis.
Medical Admission accesses Admission Diagnosis.
Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing updates Case.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning uses Case.
Nursing Admission uses Case.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning accesses Case.
Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing accesses Case.
Nursing Admission accesses Case.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning uses Clinical Pathway.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning accesses Clinical Pathway.
Nursing Admission updates Computer-Based Nursing Form.
Nursing Admission accesses Computer-Based Nursing Form.
Laboratory Information System communicates with Computerized Physician Order Entry System.
ensure data integration increases Consistency.
ensure data integration changes Consistency.
Message has the entity type component Data.
Message component Data.
ensure data integration decreases Data Collection Effort.
ensure data integration changes Data Collection Effort.
Multiple Usability of Data is based on Data Integration.
Medical Documentation System communicates with Data Warehouse System.
Medical Documentation System supports Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment.
Medical Report has the entity type component Diagnosis.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning uses Diagnosis.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning accesses Diagnosis.
Medical Report component Diagnosis.
Management has the function component Directing.
Management component Directing.
Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing updates Discharge Summary.
Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing accesses Discharge Summary.
ensure data integration decreases Double Examination.
ensure data integration changes Double Examination.
Material and Medication Management updates Drug.
Material and Medication Management uses Drug.
Material and Medication Management accesses Drug.
management of electronic health records updates Electronic Health Record.
management of electronic health records uses Electronic Health Record.
management of electronic health records accesses Electronic Health Record.
Management updates Enterprise Organizational Structure.
Management accesses Enterprise Organizational Structure.
Medical Documentation System supports Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures.
Laboratory Information System supports Execution of Lab Examinations.
MRI Scanner supports Execution of Radiological Procedures.
Laboratory Information System typical feature Assign order and blood samples to devices.
Laboratory Information System typical feature Collect results from devices.
Laboratory Information System typical feature Display earlier lab results of a patient.
Laboratory Information System typical feature Prepare report.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Print reports.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide context-related medical knowledge.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting diagnosis.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting medical anamnesis.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting patient's informed consent.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting planned tasks.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for entering clinical data (free-text or structured).
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for patients ’ informed consent.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for preparing clinical reports.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for writing the discharge letter or discharge report.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide guidelines for care planning.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Provide guidelines for treatment planning.
Laboratory Information System typical feature Provide means for preparing statistics.
Laboratory Information System typical feature Receive blood samples.
Laboratory Information System typical feature Receive orders.
Medical Documentation System typical feature Scanning documents from referring physician and other sources.
Laboratory Information System typical feature Validate results.
Medical Report has the entity type component Finding.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning uses Finding.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning accesses Finding.
Medical Report component Finding.
Long Term Archiving uses Health Care Regulation.
Long Term Archiving accesses Health Care Regulation.
Modeling Hospital Information Systems updates hospital information system model.
Modeling Hospital Information Systems accesses hospital information system model.
Medical Documentation System supports Human Resource Management.
Laundry Management updates Laundry.
Laundry Management uses Laundry.
Laundry Management accesses Laundry.
Legal Requirement is associated with Law.
Monitoring of National Legislation uses Law.
Monitoring of National Legislation accesses Law.
ensure contextual integration increases Leanness of Information Processing Tools.
ensure contextual integration changes Leanness of Information Processing Tools.
Material and Medication Management updates Material.
Material and Medication Management uses Material.
Material and Medication Management accesses Material.
ensure process integration decreases Media Crack.
ensure process integration changes Media Crack.
Medical Documentation System supports Medical Admission.
Medical Admission updates Medical Anamnesis.
Medical Care Planning uses Medical Anamnesis.
Medical Admission accesses Medical Anamnesis.
Medical Care Planning accesses Medical Anamnesis.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning uses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Management of Medical Devices updates Medical Device.
Management of Medical Devices uses Medical Device.
Management of Medical Devices accesses Medical Device.
Laboratory Information System communicates with Medical Documentation System.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning updates Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning accesses Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Model is based on Metamodel.
Management has the function component Monitoring.
Management component Monitoring.
Network is based on Network Topology.
Nurse is responsible for Nursing Admission.
Nursing Admission updates Nursing Anamnesis.
Nursing Admission accesses Nursing Anamnesis.
Nursing Care Planning updates Nursing Care Plan.
Nursing Care Planning uses Nursing Care Plan.
Nursing Care Plan has the entity type component Nursing Goal.
Nursing Care Plan component Nursing Goal.
Nursing Admission uses Nursing History.
Nursing Admission accesses Nursing History.
Nursing Care Plan has the entity type component Nursing Problem.
Nursing Care Plan component Nursing Problem.
Nursing Care Plan has the entity type component Nursing Procedure.
Nurse is responsible for Nursing Procedure.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning updates Nursing Procedure.
Nursing Care Planning updates Nursing Procedure.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning uses Nursing Procedure.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning accesses Nursing Procedure.
Nursing Care Plan component Nursing Procedure.
Nursing Admission updates Nursing Report.
Nursing Admission accesses Nursing Report.
Making a Backup has the function component Operational HIS Directing.
Management of User Accounts has the function component Operational HIS Directing.
Making a Backup component Operational HIS Directing.
Management of User Accounts component Operational HIS Directing.
Laboratory Information System communicates with Outpatient Management System.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning uses Patient.
Nursing Admission uses Patient.
Medical and Nursing Care Planning accesses Patient.
Nursing Admission accesses Patient.
Laboratory Information System communicates with Patient Data Management System.
Medical Documentation System supports Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions.
Medical Admission uses Patient History.
Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing uses Patient History.
Nursing Admission uses Patient History.
Medical Admission accesses Patient History.
Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing accesses Patient History.
Nursing Admission accesses Patient History.
Long Term Archiving updates Patient Record Archive.
Long Term Archiving uses Patient Record Archive.
Long Term Archiving accesses Patient Record Archive.
Medical Report has the entity type component Patient State.
Medical Report component Patient State.
Management has the function component Planning.
Management component Planning.
ensure data integration increases Quality of Data.
ensure data integration changes Quality of Data.
Medical Report has the entity type component Recommendations for Further Treatment.
Medical Report component Recommendations for Further Treatment.
Modeling Information Systems uses Reference Model.
Modeling Information Systems accesses Reference Model.
Modeling Hospital Information Systems uses Reference Model for the Domain Layer of Hospital Information Systems.
Modeling Hospital Information Systems accesses Reference Model for the Domain Layer of Hospital Information Systems.
Fulfillment of the Expectations of Different Stakeholders uses Requirement of HIS Stakeholder.
Fulfillment of the Expectations of Different Stakeholders accesses Requirement of HIS Stakeholder.
Making a Backup updates Storage Medium.
Making a Backup accesses Storage Medium.
Long-Term HIS Planning has the function component Strategic Alignment.
Long-Term HIS Planning component Strategic Alignment.
Management updates Strategic Goal of the Institution.
Management accesses Strategic Goal of the Institution.
Long-Term HIS Planning updates Strategic Information Management Plan.
Establish and Promote the Strategic Information Management Plan uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Establish and Promote the Strategic Information Management Plan accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Long-Term HIS Planning accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Medical Report has the entity type component Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Medical Report component Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
ensure process integration decreases Transcription.
ensure process integration changes Transcription.
Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing updates Transfer.
Medical Admission uses Transfer.
Medical Admission accesses Transfer.
Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing accesses Transfer.
Monolithic Architecture is associated with V1 Style.
Monitoring of Vital Signs uses Vital Sign.
Monitoring of Vital Signs accesses Vital Sign.
Medical Admission is associated with Ward.
Nursing Admission is associated with Ward.
Operational HIS Directing has the function component Access Control Management.
Operational HIS Directing component Access Control Management.
Process Chain has the entity type component Activity Modeling Element.
Process Chain component Activity Modeling Element.
Patient Administration has the function component Administrative Admission.
Patient Admission has the function component Administrative Admission.
Patient Administration System supports Administrative Admission.
Patient Administration component Administrative Admission.
Patient Admission component Administrative Admission.
Patient Administration has the function component Administrative Discharge and Billing.
Outpatient Management System supports Administrative Discharge and Billing.
Patient Administration System supports Administrative Discharge and Billing.
Patient Administration component Administrative Discharge and Billing.
Operational Information Management updates Application Component.
Project Execution updates Application Component.
Operational Information Management uses Application Component.
Portfolio Management uses Application Component.
Operational Information Management accesses Application Component.
Portfolio Management accesses Application Component.
Project Execution accesses Application Component.
Portfolio Management updates Application Portfolio.
Portfolio Management accesses Application Portfolio.
Order Entry has the function component Appointment Scheduling.
Patient Admission has the function component Appointment Scheduling.
Order Entry component Appointment Scheduling.
Patient Admission component Appointment Scheduling.
Operational Information Management Staff is responsible for Availability of Application Components.
Operational Information Management updates Backbone.
Operational Information Management uses Backbone.
Operational Information Management accesses Backbone.
Patient is associated with Bed.
Patient is associated with Case.
Nursing Discharge and Nursing Report Writing updates Case.
Patient Admission updates Case.
Opening a Patient Record uses Case.
Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent uses Case.
Preparation of an Order uses Case.
Nursing Discharge and Nursing Report Writing accesses Case.
Opening a Patient Record accesses Case.
Patient Admission accesses Case.
Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent accesses Case.
Preparation of an Order accesses Case.
Patient History has the entity type component Clinical Pathway.
Patient History component Clinical Pathway.
Patient Care has the function component Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures.
Patient Care Function has the function component Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures.
Nursing Management and Documentation System supports Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures.
Operation Management System supports Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures.
Patient Administration System supports Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures.
Patient Data Management System supports Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures.
Patient Care component Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures.
Patient Care Function component Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures.
Picture Archiving and Communication System communicates with Computerized Physician Order Entry System.
Permanent Monitoring has the function component Continuous HIS Auditing.
Permanent Monitoring component Continuous HIS Auditing.
Patient Billing updates Cost of Treatment.
Patient Billing accesses Cost of Treatment.
Operation Management System supports Decision Making and Patient Information.
Patient Care has the function component Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment.
Patient Care Function has the function component Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment.
Outpatient Management System supports Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment.
Patient Care component Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment.
Patient Care Function component Decision Making Planning and Organization of Patient Treatment.
Qualitative Content Analysis has the entity type component Deductive Approach.
Qualitative Content Analysis component Deductive Approach.
Operation Report has the entity type component Diagnosis.
Patient History has the entity type component Diagnosis.
Patient Billing uses Diagnosis.
Patient Billing accesses Diagnosis.
Operation Report component Diagnosis.
Patient History component Diagnosis.
Patient History has the entity type component Diagnosis Class.
Patient History component Diagnosis Class.
Order Entry updates Knowledge about Diagnostic Procedure.
Order Entry accesses Knowledge about Diagnostic Procedure.
Nursing Report has the entity type component Diet.
Nursing Report component Diet.
Patient Record has the entity type component Digital Image.
Patient Record component Digital Image.
Patient History has the entity type component Discharge Summary.
Physician is responsible for Discharge Summary.
Patient History component Discharge Summary.
Patient Billing updates DRG.
Patient Billing accesses DRG.
Patient Record Archive has the entity type component Electronic Patient Record.
Patient Record Archive component Electronic Patient Record.
Operation Management System supports Execution of an Operation.
Operation Management System supports Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures.
Patient Care has the function component Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures.
Patient Care Function has the function component Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures.
Outpatient Management System supports Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures.
Patient Chart System supports Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures.
Patient Data Management System supports Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures.
Patient Care component Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures.
Patient Care Function component Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures.
Nursing Management and Documentation System supports Execution of Nursing Procedures.
Picture Archiving and Communication System supports Execution of Radiological Procedures.
Patient History has the entity type component External Finding.
Patient History component External Finding.
Operational Information Management has the function component Failure Management.
Operational Information Management component Failure Management.
Patient History has the entity type component Family History.
Patient History component Family History.
Patient Administration System typical feature Administrate the master patient index (MPI).
Patient Administration System typical feature Admit patients to the ward.
Picture Archiving and Communication System typical feature Archive pictures.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Assign doctors to patients or rooms.
Patient Administration System typical feature Assign patients to rooms and beds.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Assign staff to patients or rooms.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Communicate discharge information.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Communicate discharge information.
Picture Archiving and Communication System typical feature Communicate pictures.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Create worklist for a group of patients.
Picture Archiving and Communication System typical feature Display pictures.
Operation Management System typical feature Display vital parameters from monitoring devices.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Display vital parameters from monitoring devices.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Display warning messages.
Patient Administration System typical feature Merge patient information from two records.
Picture Archiving and Communication System typical feature Modify presentation of pictures.
Patient Data Management System typical feature offer decision support for care planning.
Patient Data Management System typical feature organize patient transport.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Print forms.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Print forms.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Print reports.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide forms for clinical reports.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide forms for documenting clinical procedures.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide forms for documenting diagnosis.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide forms for documenting diagnosis.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide forms for documenting diagnosis.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting diagnosis and problems.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide forms for documenting medical anamnesis.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide forms for documenting medical anamnesis.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide forms for documenting medical anamnesis.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide forms for documenting medications.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting nursing aims.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting nursing tasks.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting performed tasks.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide forms for documenting procedures and outcomes.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting the nursing history.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for documenting the outcome of nursing tasks.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide forms for entering clinical data (free-text or structured).
Patient Administration System typical feature Provide forms for entering or updating patient administrative information.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide forms for preparing operation reports.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide forms for writing a transfer letter or discharge report.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide forms for writing the discharge report.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Provide forms for writing the nursing discharge report.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide means for check-in of patient.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide means for check-in of patient.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide means for check-in of patient.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide means for creating operation plans (daily weekly).
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide means for creating statistics.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide means for finalizing documentation.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide means for finalizing documentation.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature Provide means for finalizing nursing documentation.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide means for initiating final billing for outpatient treatment.
Patient Administration System typical feature Provide means for initiation of final billing.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide means for managing appointments.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide means for managing medical devices.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide means for managing medical devices.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide means for managing rooms.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide means for ordering consumables.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide means for ordering drugs.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide means for ordering drugs materials and laundry.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide means for ordering laundry.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide means for ordering patient transfer to other units.
Operation Management System typical feature Provide means for ordering patient transfer to ward.
Patient Administration System typical feature Provide means for ordering patient transfer within the institution.
Patient Administration System typical feature Provide means for ordering transport services.
Patient Data Management System typical feature Provide means for preparing a care plan.
Patient Administration System typical feature Provide means for preparing hospital-wide statistics.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide means for preparing ward-related statistics.
Patient Administration System typical feature Provide means for scheduling patients ’ appointments.
Patient Administration System typical feature Provide relatives with information on the location of a patient.
Outpatient Management System typical feature Provide reminder for fulfilling of legal reporting requirements.
Patient Administration System typical feature Provide reminder for fulfilling of legal reporting requirements.
Patient Administration System typical feature Retrieve patient.
Picture Archiving and Communication System typical feature Search for old pictures.
Nursing Management and Documentation System typical feature support creation of a nursing care plan.
Patient History has the entity type component Finding.
Patient History component Finding.
Performance of Legal Notification Requirements uses Health Care Regulation.
Performance of Legal Notification Requirements accesses Health Care Regulation.
Portfolio Management uses HIS Component.
Portfolio Management accesses HIS Component.
Patient is associated with HIS Stakeholder.
Project Execution updates Hospital Information System.
Project Execution accesses Hospital Information System.
Payroll Accounting updates Human Resource.
Payroll Accounting uses Human Resource.
Payroll Accounting accesses Human Resource.
Operational Information Management has the function component Human Resource Management.
Nursing Management and Documentation System supports Human Resource Management.
Outpatient Management System supports Human Resource Management.
Patient Data Management System supports Human Resource Management.
Operational Information Management component Human Resource Management.
Qualitative Content Analysis has the entity type component Inductive Approach.
Qualitative Content Analysis component Inductive Approach.
Operational Information Management updates Information System Model.
Operational Information Management uses Information System Model.
Operational Information Management accesses Information System Model.
Patient History has the entity type component Informed Consent.
Patient History component Informed Consent.
Permanent Monitoring updates IT Evaluation Study.
Permanent Monitoring accesses IT Evaluation Study.
Portfolio Management is associated with IT Investment Planning.
Operational Information Management has the function component IT Support.
Operational Information Management Staff is responsible for IT Support.
Operational Information Management component IT Support.
Operational Information Management updates Key Performance Indicator.
Payroll Accounting updates Key Performance Indicator.
Operational Information Management accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Payroll Accounting accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Preparation of Health Statistics uses KHStatV.
Preparation of Health Statistics accesses KHStatV.
Patient Admission has the function component Medical Admission.
Physician is responsible for Medical Admission.
Operation Management System supports Medical Admission.
Outpatient Management System supports Medical Admission.
Patient Data Management System supports Medical Admission.
Patient Admission component Medical Admission.
Patient History has the entity type component Medical Anamnesis.
Patient History component Medical Anamnesis.
Physician is responsible for Medical and Nursing Care Planning.
Nursing Management and Documentation System supports Medical and Nursing Care Planning.
Patient Data Management System supports Medical and Nursing Care Planning.
Publishing and Presentation updates Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Preparation of an Order uses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Publishing and Presentation uses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Preparation of an Order accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Publishing and Presentation accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Operation Management System communicates with Medical Documentation System.
Picture Archiving and Communication System communicates with Medical Documentation System.
Patient History has the entity type component Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Physician is responsible for Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Preparation of an Order uses Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Preparation of an Order accesses Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Patient History component Knowledge about Medical Procedure.
Patient History has the entity type component Medication.
Patient History component Medication.
Project has the entity type component Migration Path.
Project component Migration Path.
Qualitative Content Analysis has the entity type component Mixed Approach.
Qualitative Content Analysis component Mixed Approach.
Patient Chart System supports Monitoring of Vital Signs.
Operational Information Management updates Network.
Operational Information Management uses Network.
Operational Information Management accesses Network.
Operational Information Management has the function component Network Management.
Operational Information Management component Network Management.
Operational Information Management has the function component Network Monitoring.
Operational Information Management component Network Monitoring.
Organizational Plan is associated with Non-Computer-Based Physical Data Processing System.
Performance of Legal Notification Requirements updates Notification.
Performance of Legal Notification Requirements accesses Notification.
Patient Admission has the function component Nursing Admission.
Nursing Management and Documentation System supports Nursing Admission.
Patient Admission component Nursing Admission.
Patient History has the entity type component Nursing Anamnesis.
Patient History component Nursing Anamnesis.
Nursing Care Planning accesses Nursing Care Plan.
Nursing Management and Documentation System supports Nursing Care Planning.
Nursing Management and Documentation System supports Nursing Discharge and Nursing Report Writing.
Patient History has the entity type component Nursing Procedure.
Nursing Care Planning accesses Nursing Procedure.
Patient History component Nursing Procedure.
Nursing Discharge and Nursing Report Writing updates Nursing Report.
Nursing Discharge and Nursing Report Writing accesses Nursing Report.
Patient Identification Number is associated with Object Identity.
OpenEHR Ontology has the entity type component OpenEHR Model of Content.
OpenEHR Ontology component OpenEHR Model of Content.
OpenEHR Ontology has the entity type component OpenEHR Model of Processes.
OpenEHR Ontology component OpenEHR Model of Processes.
OpenEHR has the entity type component OpenEHR Ontology.
OpenEHR component OpenEHR Ontology.
Operational Information Management has the function component Operational HIS Directing.
Operational Information Management component Operational HIS Directing.
Operational Information Management has the function component Operational HIS Monitoring.
Operational Information Management component Operational HIS Monitoring.
Operational Information Management has the function component Operational HIS Planning.
Operational Information Management component Operational HIS Planning.
Operational HIS Monitoring uses Operational Management Concept.
Operational HIS Monitoring accesses Operational Management Concept.
Patient History has the entity type component Order.
Preparation of an Order updates Order.
Preparation of an Order accesses Order.
Patient History component Order.
Order Entry uses Order Catalog.
Preparation of an Order uses Order Catalog.
Order Entry accesses Order Catalog.
Preparation of an Order accesses Order Catalog.
Patient Care has the function component Order Entry.
Patient Care Function has the function component Order Entry.
Patient Chart System supports Order Entry.
Patient Care component Order Entry.
Patient Care Function component Order Entry.
Order has the entity type component Order Form.
Order component Order Form.
Organizational Model has the entity type component Organizational Unit Modeling Element.
Organizational Model component Organizational Unit Modeling Element.
Outpatient Unit is associated with Outpatient.
Patient Record Archive has the entity type component Paper-Based Patient Record.
Patient Record Archive component Paper-Based Patient Record.
Patient History has the entity type component Past Medical History.
Patient History component Past Medical History.
Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent updates Patient.
Opening a Patient Record uses Patient.
Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent uses Patient.
Preparation of an Order uses Patient.
Opening a Patient Record accesses Patient.
Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent accesses Patient.
Preparation of an Order accesses Patient.
Nursing Report has the entity type component Patient Activity Level.
Nursing Report component Patient Activity Level.
Patient Care has the function component Patient Admission.
Patient Care Function has the function component Patient Admission.
Patient Care component Patient Admission.
Patient Care Function component Patient Admission.
Picture Archiving and Communication System communicates with Patient Data Management System.
Patient Care has the function component Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions.
Patient Care Function has the function component Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions.
Operation Management System supports Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions.
Outpatient Management System supports Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions.
Patient Data Management System supports Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions.
Patient Care component Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions.
Patient Care Function component Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions.
Patient Record has the entity type component Patient History.
Nursing Discharge and Nursing Report Writing uses Patient History.
Nursing Discharge and Nursing Report Writing accesses Patient History.
Patient Record component Patient History.
Patient Administration has the function component Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent.
Patient Admission has the function component Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent.
Patient Administration System supports Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent.
Patient Administration component Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent.
Patient Admission component Patient Identification and Checking for Recurrent.
Opening a Patient Record updates Patient Record Archive.
Opening a Patient Record accesses Patient Record Archive.
Project Execution updates Physical Data Processing System.
Project Execution accesses Physical Data Processing System.
Patient is associated with Physician.
Operational HIS Planning has the function component Planning of Buildings.
Operational HIS Planning component Planning of Buildings.
Operational HIS Planning has the function component Planning of Finances.
Operational HIS Planning component Planning of Finances.
Operational HIS Planning has the function component Planning of Organizational Procedures.
Operational HIS Planning component Planning of Organizational Procedures.
Operational HIS Planning has the function component Planning of Organizational Structures.
Operational HIS Planning component Planning of Organizational Structures.
Operational HIS Planning has the function component Planning of Rooms.
Operational HIS Planning component Planning of Rooms.
Operational HIS Planning has the function component Planning of Staff.
Operational HIS Planning component Planning of Staff.
Order Entry has the function component Preparation of an Order.
Order Entry component Preparation of an Order.
Procedure Class has the entity type component Knowledge about Procedure.
Patient Billing uses Knowledge about Procedure.
Patient Billing accesses Knowledge about Procedure.
Procedure Class component Knowledge about Procedure.
Patient History has the entity type component Procedure Class.
Patient History component Procedure Class.
Project Portfolio has the entity type component Project.
Portfolio Management updates Project.
Operational Information Management uses Project.
Operational Information Management accesses Project.
Portfolio Management accesses Project.
Project Portfolio component Project.
Project has the entity type component Project Completion Phase.
Project component Project Completion Phase.
Project Management Board is responsible for Project Conflict Management.
Project has the entity type component Project Execution Module.
Project Execution uses Project Execution Module.
Project Execution accesses Project Execution Module.
Project component Project Execution Module.
Project has the entity type component Project Initiation Phase.
Project component Project Initiation Phase.
Project Management Board includes Project Manager.
Project Management Board component Project Manager.
Project Management Board is responsible for Project Monitoring.
Project has the entity type component Project Planning Phase.
Project component Project Planning Phase.
Picture Archiving and Communication System communicates with Radiology Information System.
Patient is associated with relative.
Project Management Board includes Representative of Hospital Department.
Project Management Board component Representative of Hospital Department.
Project Execution uses Resource.
Project Execution accesses Resource.
Organizational Model has the entity type component Role Modeling Element.
Process Chain has the entity type component Role Modeling Element.
Organizational Model component Role Modeling Element.
Process Chain component Role Modeling Element.
Order has the entity type component Sample.
Preparation of an Order updates Sample.
Preparation of an Order accesses Sample.
Order component Sample.
Patient Data Management System is associated with SAPS.
Operation Management System supports Scheduling and Resource Allocation.
Outpatient Management System supports Scheduling and Resource Allocation.
Patient Administration System supports Scheduling and Resource Allocation.
Patient Data Management System supports Scheduling and Resource Allocation.
Operational Information Management updates Server.
Operational Information Management uses Server.
Operational Information Management accesses Server.
Organization of Health Care uses SGB V.
Organization of Health Care accesses SGB V.
Patient History has the entity type component Social History.
Patient History component Social History.
Operational Information Management uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Operational Information Management accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Operation Management System supports Supply and Disposal Management.
Patient Data Management System supports Supply and Disposal Management.
Patient History has the entity type component Systems Review.
Patient History component Systems Review.
Operation Report has the entity type component Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Order Entry updates Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Patient Billing uses Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Order Entry accesses Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Patient Billing accesses Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Operation Report component Knowledge about Therapeutic Procedure.
Patient Data Management System is associated with TISS.
Project Management Board includes Top Management.
Project Management Board component Top Management.
Patient History has the entity type component Transfer.
Patient History component Transfer.
Project Management Board includes Vendor.
Project Management Board component Vendor.
Patient Administration has the function component Visitor and Information Service.
Patient Admission has the function component Visitor and Information Service.
Patient Administration System supports Visitor and Information Service.
Patient Administration component Visitor and Information Service.
Patient Admission component Visitor and Information Service.
Patient is associated with Ward.
Operation Management System supports Work Organization and Time Management.
Operational Information Management updates Workstation.
Operational Information Management uses Workstation.
Operational Information Management accesses Workstation.
Nursing Report has the entity type component Wound Care.
Nursing Report component Wound Care.
Synchronous Communication is associated with 2-Phase-Commit-Protocol.
Quality of HIS Processes is associated with 3LGM² Information Process.
SOA is associated with Access Integration.
Strategic HIS Monitoring has the function component Ad Hoc Monitoring.
Strategic HIS Monitoring component Ad Hoc Monitoring.
Robot System supports Administration and Allocation of Patient Records.
Strategic HIS Directing has the function component Adoption of Project Result.
Strategic HIS Directing component Adoption of Project Result.
Strategic Information Management Plan is associated with Analysis and Assessment of the Current HIS State.
Scheduling and Resource Allocation has the function component Appointment Scheduling.
Radiology Information System supports Appointment Scheduling.
Scheduling and Resource Allocation component Appointment Scheduling.
Study Exploration updates Approval to a Study.
Study Exploration accesses Approval to a Study.
Socio-Technical System has the entity type component Artificial System.
Socio-Technical System component Artificial System.
Strategic Information Management uses Business Strategy.
Strategic Information Management accesses Business Strategy.
Supply and Disposal Management has the function component Catering.
Supply and Disposal Management component Catering.
Service Transition has the function component Change Management.
Service Transition component Change Management.
Radiology Information System supports Coding of Diagnoses and Procedures.
Standardization of Interfaces is based on Communication Standard.
Service Transition has the function component Configuration Management.
Service Transition component Configuration Management.
Strategic Information Management uses Controlling Report.
Strategic Information Management accesses Controlling Report.
System Introduction has the function component Customizing.
System Introduction component Customizing.
SOA is associated with Data Integration.
Strategic Information Management Plan has the entity type component Description of the Current HIS State.
Strategic Information Management Plan component Description of the Current HIS State.
Strategic Information Management Plan has the entity type component Description of the Planned HIS State.
Strategic Information Management Plan component Description of the Planned HIS State.
Quality Management uses Diagnostic Standard.
Quality Management accesses Diagnostic Standard.
Strategic Information Management Plan has the entity type component Directive for HIS Construction.
Strategic Information Management Plan component Directive for HIS Construction.
Standardization by CEN updates EN12538.
Standardization by CEN accesses EN12538.
Standardization by CEN updates EN12539.
Standardization by CEN accesses EN12539.
Standardization by CEN updates EN1613.
Standardization by CEN accesses EN1613.
Research and Education has the function component Education.
Research and Education component Education.
Quality Management uses Electronic Health Record.
Quality Management accesses Electronic Health Record.
Study has the entity type component Evaluation Method.
Study component Evaluation Method.
Research and Education has the function component Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments.
Research and Education component Execution of Clinical Trials and Experiments.
Radiology Information System supports Execution of Radiological Procedures.
Radiology Information System typical feature Assign orders to modalities.
Radiology Information System typical feature Assign patients to modalities.
Radiology Information System typical feature Creation of Radiology Reports.
Radiology Information System typical feature Manage modalities.
Radiology Information System typical feature Preparing Statistics.
Radiology Information System typical feature Provide forms for writing a report.
Radiology Information System typical feature Provide means for check-in of patient.
Radiology Information System typical feature provision of patient data and examination parameters.
Radiology Information System typical feature Receive orders.
Radiology Information System typical feature Registering Patients.
Radiology Information System typical feature Workflow Management.
Service Desk Staff is responsible for First-Level Support.
Remote Function Call is associated with Functional Integration.
SOA is associated with Functional Integration.
Strategic HIS Monitoring uses Functional Redundancy Rate.
Strategic HIS Monitoring accesses Functional Redundancy Rate.
Strategic HIS Planning updates HIS Architecture.
Strategic HIS Directing uses HIS Architecture.
Strategic HIS Directing accesses HIS Architecture.
Strategic HIS Planning accesses HIS Architecture.
Strategic HIS Monitoring has the function component HIS Certification.
Strategic HIS Monitoring component HIS Certification.
SWOT Analysis is associated with HIS Quality.
Strategic HIS Monitoring uses HIS Quality.
Strategic HIS Monitoring accesses HIS Quality.
Strategic Alignment uses Hospital Business Plan.
Strategic Alignment accesses Hospital Business Plan.
Strategic HIS Planning updates Hospital Information System.
Strategic HIS Planning accesses Hospital Information System.
Service Catalog has the entity type component Hospital Service.
Service Catalog has the entity type component Hospital's Service.
Service Catalog component Hospital Service.
Service Catalog component Hospital's Service.
Software Ergonomics is associated with ISO 9241.
Standard has the entity type component IHE Integration Profile.
Standard component IHE Integration Profile.
Service Operation has the function component Incident Management.
Service Operation component Incident Management.
Strategic HIS Directing uses Information Management Organizational Structure.
Strategic HIS Directing accesses Information Management Organizational Structure.
Strategic Information Management uses Information System Model.
Strategic Information Management accesses Information System Model.
SOA has the entity type component Integration Platform.
SOA component Integration Platform.
Quality Management has the function component Internal Quality Management.
Quality Management component Internal Quality Management.
Strategic HIS Monitoring updates Key Performance Indicator.
Strategic Information Management updates Key Performance Indicator.
Strategic HIS Monitoring uses Key Performance Indicator.
Strategic Information Management uses Key Performance Indicator.
Strategic HIS Monitoring accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Strategic Information Management accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Research and Education has the function component Knowledge Retrieval and Literature Management.
Research and Education component Knowledge Retrieval and Literature Management.
Supply and Disposal Management has the function component Laundry Management.
Supply and Disposal Management component Laundry Management.
Risk Management uses Law.
Risk Management accesses Law.
Strategic HIS Planning has the function component Long-Term HIS Planning.
Software Vendor is involved in Long-Term HIS Planning.
Strategic HIS Planning component Long-Term HIS Planning.
Socio-Technical System has the entity type component Man-Made System.
Socio-Technical System component Man-Made System.
Supply and Disposal Management has the function component Management of Medical Devices.
Radiology Information System supports Management of Medical Devices.
Supply and Disposal Management component Management of Medical Devices.
Service Desk Staff is responsible for Management of User Accounts.
Supply and Disposal Management has the function component Material and Medication Management.
Supply and Disposal Management component Material and Medication Management.
Radiology Information System supports Medical Admission.
Research Management updates Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Research Management uses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Research Management accesses Medical and Nursing Knowledge.
Reference Model is based on Metamodel.
Remote Function Call is associated with Middleware.
Strategic Information Management Plan has the entity type component Migration Path.
Strategic HIS Directing uses Migration Path.
Strategic HIS Directing accesses Migration Path.
Strategic Information Management Plan component Migration Path.
Strategic HIS Directing has the function component Monitoring the Project Progress.
Strategic HIS Directing component Monitoring the Project Progress.
Referential Integrity is based on Object Identity.
Qualitative Observation is associated with Observation Protocol.
Sample is associated with Patient.
Quality Management uses Patient.
Quality Management accesses Patient.
Quality Management has the function component Performance of Legal Notification Requirements.
Quality Management component Performance of Legal Notification Requirements.
Strategic HIS Monitoring has the function component Permanent Monitoring.
Strategic HIS Monitoring component Permanent Monitoring.
Strategic HIS Planning has the function component Portfolio Management.
Strategic HIS Planning component Portfolio Management.
Study Exploration updates Preliminary Outline of a Study.
Study Exploration accesses Preliminary Outline of a Study.
SOA is associated with Presentation Integration.
Service Operation has the function component Problem Management.
Service Operation component Problem Management.
Quality of Processes is associated with Process Integration.
Strategic HIS Directing updates Project.
Tactical HIS Monitoring updates Project.
Tactical HIS Planning updates Project.
Tactical HIS Directing uses Project.
Strategic HIS Directing accesses Project.
Tactical HIS Directing accesses Project.
Tactical HIS Monitoring accesses Project.
Tactical HIS Planning accesses Project.
Strategic HIS Directing has the function component Project Initiation.
Strategic HIS Directing component Project Initiation.
Tactical HIS Planning updates Project Plan.
Tactical HIS Directing uses Project Plan.
Tactical HIS Directing accesses Project Plan.
Tactical HIS Planning accesses Project Plan.
Short-Term HIS Planning updates Project Portfolio.
Strategic HIS Planning updates Project Portfolio.
Strategic HIS Directing uses Project Portfolio.
Short-Term HIS Planning accesses Project Portfolio.
Strategic HIS Directing accesses Project Portfolio.
Strategic HIS Planning accesses Project Portfolio.
Strategic HIS Directing has the function component Project Resource Allocation.
Strategic HIS Directing component Project Resource Allocation.
Tactical HIS Monitoring uses Project Result.
Tactical HIS Monitoring accesses Project Result.
Strategic HIS Directing has the function component Project Time Allocation.
Strategic HIS Directing component Project Time Allocation.
Research and Education has the function component Publishing and Presentation.
Research and Education component Publishing and Presentation.
Quality Assessment uses Quality.
Quality Assessment accesses Quality.
Quality of HIS Structures has the entity type component Quality of Computer-Based Application Components and Their Integration.
Quality of HIS Structures component Quality of Computer-Based Application Components and Their Integration.
Quality of HIS Structures has the entity type component Quality of Data.
Quality of HIS Structures component Quality of Data.
Quality of HIS Structures has the entity type component Quality of HIS Architecture.
Quality of HIS Structures component Quality of HIS Architecture.
Quality has the entity type component Quality of Outcome.
Quality of Processes is associated with Quality of Outcome.
Quality component Quality of Outcome.
Quality has the entity type component Quality of Processes.
Quality of Structures is associated with Quality of Processes.
Quality component Quality of Processes.
Quality has the entity type component Quality of Structures.
Quality component Quality of Structures.
Strategic Information Management uses Quality Report.
Strategic Information Management accesses Quality Report.
Research Management updates Research Document.
Research Management uses Research Document.
Research Management accesses Research Document.
Research and Education has the function component Research Management.
Research and Education component Research Management.
Study has the entity type component Resource.
Study component Resource.
Scheduling and Resource Allocation has the function component Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit.
Scheduling and Resource Allocation component Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit.
Scheduling and Resource Allocation has the function component Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Patient Transport Service.
Scheduling and Resource Allocation component Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Patient Transport Service.
Server Cluster has the entity type component Server.
Server Cluster component Server.
Service Transition has the function component Service Asset Management.
Service Transition component Service Asset Management.
Service Operation has the function component Service Desk Management.
Service Operation component Service Desk Management.
Strategic HIS Planning has the function component Short-Term HIS Planning.
Strategic HIS Planning component Short-Term HIS Planning.
SOA has the entity type component SOA Service.
SOA component SOA Service.
Software Product is associated with Software Vendor.
SAN has the entity type component Storage Medium.
Storage Area Network has the entity type component Storage Medium.
SAN component Storage Medium.
Storage Area Network component Storage Medium.
Strategic Alignment uses Strategic Alignment Model.
Strategic Alignment accesses Strategic Alignment Model.
Strategic HIS Monitoring updates Strategic Decision.
Strategic HIS Monitoring accesses Strategic Decision.
Strategic Information Management has the function component Strategic HIS Directing.
Strategic Information Management component Strategic HIS Directing.
Strategic Information Management has the function component Strategic HIS Monitoring.
Strategic Information Management component Strategic HIS Monitoring.
Strategic HIS Monitoring updates Strategic HIS Monitoring Result.
Strategic HIS Directing uses Strategic HIS Monitoring Result.
Strategic HIS Directing accesses Strategic HIS Monitoring Result.
Strategic HIS Monitoring accesses Strategic HIS Monitoring Result.
Strategic Information Management has the function component Strategic HIS Planning.
Strategic Information Management component Strategic HIS Planning.
Strategic Information Management Plan has the entity type component Strategic Hospital Goal.
Quality Management updates Strategic Hospital Goal.
Quality Management uses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Strategic Alignment uses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Strategic Information Management uses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Quality Management accesses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Strategic Alignment accesses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Strategic Information Management accesses Strategic Hospital Goal.
Strategic Information Management Plan component Strategic Hospital Goal.
Strategic HIS Directing has the function component Strategic Information Management.
Strategic HIS Monitoring has the function component Strategic Information Management.
Strategic HIS Directing component Strategic Information Management.
Strategic HIS Monitoring component Strategic Information Management.
Strategic Information Management Plan has the entity type component Strategic Information Management Goal.
Quality of HIS Outcome is associated with Strategic Information Management Goal.
Strategic Alignment updates Strategic Information Management Goal.
Strategic Alignment accesses Strategic Information Management Goal.
Strategic Information Management Plan component Strategic Information Management Goal.
Strategic Alignment updates Strategic Information Management Plan.
Strategic HIS Planning updates Strategic Information Management Plan.
Strategic HIS Directing uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Strategic HIS Monitoring uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Strategic Information Management uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Tactical HIS Directing uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Tactical HIS Monitoring uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Tactical HIS Planning uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Strategic Alignment accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Strategic HIS Directing accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Strategic HIS Monitoring accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Strategic HIS Planning accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Strategic Information Management accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Tactical HIS Directing accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Tactical HIS Monitoring accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Tactical HIS Planning accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Study has the entity type component Study Objective.
Study component Study Objective.
Study has the entity type component Study Participant.
Study component Study Participant.
Report and Publication of Study updates Study Report.
Report and Publication of Study accesses Study Report.
Report and Publication of Study uses Study Result.
Report and Publication of Study accesses Study Result.
Remote Function Call is associated with Synchronous Communication.
Tactical HIS Directing has the function component Tactical Information Management.
Tactical HIS Monitoring has the function component Tactical Information Management.
Tactical HIS Planning has the function component Tactical Information Management.
Tactical HIS Directing component Tactical Information Management.
Tactical HIS Monitoring component Tactical Information Management.
Tactical HIS Planning component Tactical Information Management.
Quality Management uses Therapeutic Standard.
Quality Management accesses Therapeutic Standard.
Research Management updates Third-Party Fund.
Research Management uses Third-Party Fund.
Research Management accesses Third-Party Fund.
Service Desk Staff is responsible for Trouble Shooting.
System Specification has the function component User Requirements Analysis.
System Specification component User Requirements Analysis.
Second-Level Support has the function component User Training.
Second-Level Support component User Training.
Radiology Information System supports Work Organization and Time Management.
Taxonomy of Architectures at the Physical book Health Information Systems Ontology.
Transparency is associated with 3LGM².
Technical Metamodel has the entity type component Application Component.
Tactical Information Management updates Application Component.
Tactical Information Management uses Application Component.
Tactical Information Management accesses Application Component.
Technical Metamodel component Application Component.
Work Organization and Time Management uses Appointment.
Work Organization and Time Management accesses Appointment.
Top Management is responsible for Approval to Strategic Information Management Plan.
Visitor and Information Service uses Case.
Visitor and Information Service accesses Case.
Top Management includes Chief Executive Officer.
Top Management component Chief Executive Officer.
Top Management includes Chief Financial Officer.
Top Management component Chief Financial Officer.
Technical Metamodel has the entity type component Data Transmission Connection.
Technical Metamodel component Data Transmission Connection.
Tactical Information Management is associated with Enterprise Function.
Transinstitutional Health Information System is associated with Functional Redundancy Rate.
Transinstitutional Health Information System is associated with Health Care Network.
Vendor is associated with HIS Stakeholder.
Transinstitutional Health Information System has the entity type component Hospital Information System.
Tactical Information Management updates Hospital Information System.
Tactical Information Management accesses Hospital Information System.
Transinstitutional Health Information System component Hospital Information System.
Top Management is responsible for Hospital Management.
Work Organization and Time Management updates Human Resource.
Work Organization and Time Management uses Human Resource.
Work Organization and Time Management accesses Human Resource.
Tactical Information Management updates Information System Model.
Tactical Information Management uses Information System Model.
Tactical Information Management accesses Information System Model.
Tactical Information Management updates IT Evaluation Study.
Tactical Information Management uses IT Evaluation Study.
Tactical Information Management accesses IT Evaluation Study.
Tactical Information Management updates Key Performance Indicator.
Work Organization and Time Management updates Key Performance Indicator.
Tactical Information Management accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Work Organization and Time Management accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Transcription is associated with Media Crack.
Visitor and Information Service uses Patient.
Visitor and Information Service accesses Patient.
Technical Metamodel has the entity type component Physical Data Processing System.
Technical Metamodel component Physical Data Processing System.
Tactical Information Management updates Project.
Tactical Information Management uses Project.
Tactical Information Management accesses Project.
Tactical Information Management has the function component Project Execution.
Tactical Information Management component Project Execution.
Tactical Information Management uses Project Management Method.
Tactical Information Management accesses Project Management Method.
Tactical Information Management has the function component Project Planning.
Tactical Information Management component Project Planning.
Top Management is responsible for Quality.
Vendor is responsible for Software Development.
Tactical Information Management uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Tactical Information Management accesses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Technical Model is based on Technical Metamodel.
Video Conferencing System supports Teleconsultation.
Transinstitutional Health Information System is associated with Telemicroscopy.
Transinstitutional Health Information System is associated with Teleradiology.
Teleradiology System supports Teleradiology.
Vendor is responsible for Third-Level Support.
Transinstitutional Health Information System is associated with Transinstitutional Health Care Function.
UML Class Diagram has the entity type component UML Association.
UML Class Diagram component UML Association.
UML Class Diagram has the entity type component UML Association Class.
UML Class Diagram component UML Association Class.
UML Class has the entity type component UML Attribute.
UML Class component UML Attribute.
UML Class Diagram has the entity type component UML Class.
UML Class Diagram component UML Class.
UML Class has the entity type component UML Method.
UML Class component UML Method.
Working List supports Work Organization and Time Management.
Logical Tool Layer has the entity type component Application System.
Operational HIS Planning updates Operational Concept.
Logical Tool Layer has the entity type component Communication Link.
Management of Information Systems updates Information System.
Management of Information Systems uses Information System.
Management of Information Systems has the function component IT Service Management.
Management of Information Systems has the function component Operational Management of Information Systems.
Management of Information Systems has the function component Strategic Management of Information Systems.
Management of Information Systems has the function component System Analysis.
Management of Information Systems has the function component Tactical Management of Information Systems.
Operational HIS Planning uses Access and Usage Information.
Operational HIS Planning updates Authorization Concept.
Operational HIS Planning updates Data Protection Concept.
Operational HIS Planning updates Data Security Concept.
Operational HIS Planning updates Maintenance Concept.
Operational HIS Planning updates Procurement Plan.
Operational HIS Planning updates Professional Development Concept.
Operational HIS Planning updates Release Change Concept.
Operational HIS Planning updates System Failure Concept.
Operational HIS Planning updates System Support Concept.
Operational HIS Planning updates User Support Concept.
Operational HIS Planning updates User Training Schedule.
Operational HIS Planning updates Work Schedule.
Second-Level Support updates Application System.
System Introduction updates Application System.
Third-Level Support updates Application System.
System Evaluation uses System Evaluation Method.
Vendor is responsible for Bid.
System Introduction has the function component Change Management.
Project Manager approves Change Request.
System Introduction updates Change Request List.
Project Manager is responsible for Final Report.
System Introduction updates Handover Certificate.
Strategic HIS Planning uses Hospital Goal.
Project Manager is responsible for Interim Report.
Project Execution updates Interim Report.
Vendor is responsible for Maintenance Contract.
Vendor approves Maintenance Contract.
Project Manager is responsible for Project.
Tactical HIS Directing updates Project.
Project Execution uses Project.
Project Monitoring uses Project.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Management.
Project Execution has the function component Project Monitoring.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Monitoring.
Project Initiation updates Project Order.
Project Execution uses Project Order.
Project Planning uses Project Order.
Project Planning updates Project Plan.
Project Execution uses Project Plan.
Project Monitoring uses Project Plan.
Project Planning uses Project Plan.
Tactical HIS Monitoring uses Project Plan.
Project Planning Phase is associated with Project Planning.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Planning.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Representation.
Project Planning updates Resource Plan.
System Selection updates Software Product.
System Specification updates Software Product.
System Introduction uses Software Product.
System Selection uses Software Product.
Project Plan is associated with Sponsor.
UML Class Diagram has the entity type component Class.
System Introduction has the function component Commissioning.
Project Manager is responsible for Conflict Management.
Strategic Information Management Plan has the entity type component Current State.
System Specification updates Functional Specification Document.
System Selection uses Functional Specification Document.
Project Monitoring uses Gantt Chart.
Strategic HIS Planning updates Information System.
Strategic HIS Planning uses Information System.
System Evaluation uses Information System.
System Specification uses Information System.
Project has the entity type component Milestone.
Project Planning updates Milestone.
Top Management is responsible for Organizational Unit.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Controlling.
Project Initiation updates Project Idea.
Project has the entity type component Project Organization.
Project Plan has the entity type component Project Organization.
Project has the entity type component Project Phase.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Status Report.
Project Execution updates Project Status Report.
Project Monitoring updates Project Status Report.
Project Monitoring uses Project Status Report.
Software Product is based on Prototype.
System Selection updates Purchase Contract.
Vendor approves Purchase Contract.
System Selection uses Requirement.
Project Planning has the function component Risk Analysis.
Project Plan is associated with Risk Analysis.
Project Manager is responsible for Risk Analysis.
Project Planning has the function component Scheduling.
System Introduction updates Service Level Agreement.
Project Initiation updates Stakeholder Analysis.
Project Initiation uses Stakeholder Analysis.
System has the entity type component Subsystem.
System Evaluation uses SWOT Analysis.
System Selection updates Tender.
System Selection has the function component Tendering.
Vendor is involved in Tendering.
Project Planning updates To Do List.
UML Class Diagram is associated with Unified Modeling Language.
Physical Tool Layer has the entity type component Physical Data Processing System.
Project Portfolio is based on Strategic Goal.
Strategic HIS Monitoring updates Strategic Information Management Plan.
Project Execution has the function component System Evaluation.
Project Execution has the function component System Introduction.
Project Execution has the function component System Selection.
Project Execution has the function component System Specification.
System Introduction updates Acceptance Protocol.
System Selection has the function component Bid Comparison.
Project Manager is responsible for Completion of Project Documentation.
System Analysis updates Current State Model.
System Analysis uses Current State Model.
System Specification uses Current State Model.
System Introduction updates Customization Report.
Physical Tool Layer has the entity type component Data Transmission Link.
System Selection has the function component Decision and Contract Conclusion.
Project Manager is responsible for Defining and Scheduling Milestones.
Project Initiation has the function component Defining Project Organization.
Project Manager is responsible for Defining Project Organization.
System Introduction has the function component Definition of Introduction Strategy.
Project Initiation has the function component Definition of Project Goals.
Project Plan has the entity type component Detailed Planning.
System Introduction uses Diffusion of Innovation Theory.
System Evaluation updates Evaluation Plan.
System Evaluation is associated with Evaluation Planning.
System Evaluation updates Evaluation Report.
Project Initiation has the function component Execution of a Kick-Off-Meeting.
Project Manager is responsible for Execution of a Kick-Off-Meeting.
Project Manager is responsible for Execution of a Stakeholder Analysis.
System Selection has the function component Execution of Market Analysis.
Project Monitoring has the function component Execution of Target-Performance Comparison.
Project Manager is responsible for Final Report Creation.
Project Initiation has the function component Formulation of a Project Idea.
System Introduction has the function component Go-Live.
System Specification has the function component Goal Definition.
System Analysis has the function component Information Acquisition.
System Evaluation has the function component Information Acquisition (Evaluation).
System Evaluation uses Information Acquisition Method.
System Specification uses Information Acquisition Method.
System Specification has the function component Information Acquisition (Specification).
System Introduction uses Information System Component.
Project Manager is responsible for Interim Report Creation.
Project Monitoring uses Intermediate Result.
System Introduction updates Introduction Strategy.
Project Manager is responsible for Jour Fixe.
Project Initiation updates Kick-Off-Meeting.
System Selection uses Market Analysis.
Project Execution has the function component Meeting Management.
Project Manager is responsible for Meeting Management.
Project Execution uses Method of Project Execution.
System Specification uses Migration Plan.
System Specification uses Modeling Method.
Project Initiation has the function component Placing a Project Order.
Strategic Information Management Plan has the entity type component Planned State.
System Analysis has the function component Preparation and Modeling.
System Specification has the function component Preparation and Modeling (Specification).
System Evaluation has the function component Preparation of Results.
System Introduction has the function component Preparation of System Introduction.
Vendor is involved in Preparation of Training Course.
Project Manager is responsible for Presentation of Intermediate Results.
System Selection has the function component Product Presentation.
Vendor is involved in Product Presentation.
Vendor is responsible for Product Presentation.
Project Execution uses Progress Document.
Project Monitoring uses Progress Document.
Project Manager is involved in Project Approval.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Approval.
Project Plan has the entity type component Project Background and Goal.
Project Execution has the function component Project Directing.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Directing.
Project Execution has the function component Project Documentation.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Documentation.
Project has the entity type component Project Goal.
Project Planning updates Project Goal.
Project Plan has the entity type component Project Logo.
Project Plan has the entity type component Project Manager Data.
Project Execution has the function component Project Marketing.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Member.
Project Plan has the entity type component Project Name.
Project Planning has the function component Project Plan Approval.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Plan Approval.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Plan Creation.
Project Plan has the entity type component Project Planning Result.
Project Initiation updates Project Resource.
Project Plan has the entity type component Project Schedule.
Project Planning updates Project Schedule.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Team Coordination.
Project Execution has the function component Project Team Leading.
Project Manager is responsible for Project Team Leading.
System Selection uses Qualification Criterion.
Project Planning has the function component Resource Planning.
Project Plan has the entity type component Resource Planning Result.
Project Execution uses Result Document.
System Evaluation has the function component Result Verification.
Project Plan has the entity type component Risk Plan.
Project Planning updates Risk Plan.
System Introduction updates Service Contract.
Project Plan has the entity type component Signature of Project Manager.
Project Plan has the entity type component Signature of Sponsor.
System Specification updates Specification Plan.
System Evaluation uses Structural Equality.
Project Plan has the entity type component Structural Plan.
Project Planning has the function component Structural Planning.
System Selection uses Suitability Criterion.
System Introduction updates Support Concept.
Project Execution has the function component System Analysis and Assessment.
System Analysis has the function component System Analysis Planning.
System Specification uses System Analysis Result.
System Introduction has the function component System Handover.
Vendor is involved in System Handover.
System Selection updates System Selection Result.
System Specification updates Target Concept.
System Selection uses Target Concept.
Project Initiation updates Target Definition.
Project Monitoring uses Target-Performance Comparison.
System Specification uses Target State.
System Specification updates Target State Model.
Project Execution has the function component Team Management.
Project Manager is responsible for Team Management.
Vendor is involved in Tender Opening.
System Selection has the function component Test Installation.
Project Monitoring updates Traffic Light Model.
System Introduction updates Training Concept.
System Specification has the function component Verification (Specification).
System Analysis has the function component Verification (System Analysis).
Project has the entity type component Work Package.
Project Execution updates Project Completition Report.
Project Planning uses Project Budget.
Project Planning updates Project Definition.
Project has the entity type component Project Definition.
Project Planning uses Project Portfolio.
Project Plan is associated with Project Web Site.
Project Monitoring uses Project Web Site.
Project is associated with Project Web Site.
Project Planning updates Project Web Site.
Project Execution updates Maintenance Contract.
Project Manager is involved in Maintenance Contract Creation.
RFC key Data Object Change Control Component.
Operational Information Management has the function component Operation of a component of an information function.
Operational Information Management has the function component Information Infrastructure Component Operation.
Strategic Alignment is associated with Potential for Innovation.
Strategic Alignment updates IT deployment.
Strategic Alignment uses IT deployment.
Strategic Alignment uses IT goal.
Strategic Alignment uses strategic goal.
Strategic Alignment uses Corporate Strategy.
Strategic Alignment uses corporate strategy.
Strategic Alignment updates Corporate Strategy.
Strategic Alignment updates corporate strategy.
Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions has the function component Administrative Discharge and Billing.
Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions component Administrative Discharge and Billing.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit updates Appointment.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit uses Appointment.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit accesses Appointment.
Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan updates Evaluation Method.
Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan accesses Evaluation Method.
Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures has the function component Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures.
Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures component Execution of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Procedures.
Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures has the function component Execution of Nursing Procedures.
Execution of Diagnostic Therapeutic and Nursing Procedures component Execution of Nursing Procedures.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit uses Facility and Area.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit accesses Facility and Area.
Administration of Business Trips and Further Training updates Human Resource.
Administration of Business Trips and Further Training uses Human Resource.
Administration of Business Trips and Further Training accesses Human Resource.
Administration of Business Trips and Further Training uses Key Performance Indicator.
Administration of Business Trips and Further Training accesses Key Performance Indicator.
Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions has the function component Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing.
Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions component Medical Discharge and Medical Report Writing.
Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions has the function component Nursing Discharge and Nursing Report Writing.
Patient Discharge and Transfer to Other Institutions component Nursing Discharge and Nursing Report Writing.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit updates Patient Transport.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit uses Patient Transport.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit accesses Patient Transport.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit updates Resource.
Scheduling and Resource Planning with the Medical Service Unit accesses Resource.
Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan updates Study Design.
Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan uses Study Design.
Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan accesses Study Design.
Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan uses Study Outline.
Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan accesses Study Outline.
Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan updates Study Plan.
Operationalization of Methods and Detailed Study Plan accesses Study Plan.
Contractor is responsible for Project Execution.
Change Advisory Board includes Department Manager.
Invoice Verification uses Bid.
Change Advisory Board includes Department Asisstant.
Department Asisstant is responsible for Purchase Order Processing.
Department Manager is involved in CAB execution.
Department Asisstant is involved in CAB execution.
Change Advisory Board is involved in CAB execution.
Change Request Decision updates Change Request Protocol.
Change Request Aquisition updates Change Request Protocol.
Change Request Check updates Change Request Protocol.
Change Request Monitoring uses Change Request Protocol.
Change Advisory Board is responsible for Change Request Decision.
Department Asisstant is responsible for Change Request Aquisition.
Change Advisory Board is responsible for Change Request Aquisition.
Change Advisory Board is responsible for Change Request Check.
Change Advisory Board is involved in Change Request Monitoring.
Change Advisory Board includes Chief Information Officer.
Change Advisory Board includes chief information officer.
Department Manager is involved in Jour Fixe Execution.
Contract Management Staff is involved in Jour Fixe Execution.
Maintenance Window Coordinator is responsible for Maintenance Window Execution.
Purchase Order Processing updates Budget.
Budget Planning updates Budget.
Internal Budget Account Assignment updates Budget.
Purchase Order Processing uses Budget.
Budget Planning uses Budget.
SAP Controlling supports IT Financial Controlling.
SAPCO supports IT Financial Controlling.
 supports IT Financial Controlling.
Department Asisstant is involved in IT General Ledger Account Planning.
IT strategy development updates IT Strategy.
Projects Planning uses IT Strategy.
Jour-fixe Execution CEO updates Jour fixe Protocol.
Project Presentation uses Project.
Procurement Release updates Project Order.
Purchase Order Processing updates Project Order.
Invoice Verification uses Project Order.
Department Asisstant is responsible for Project Budget.
Invoice Verification updates Project Budget.
Project Priorisation uses Project Budget.
Project Review uses Project Budget Administration.
Department Manager Project and Process Management approves Project Definition.
Department Manager is involved in Project Execution.
Project Release uses Projects List.
Project Review uses Projects List.
Projects List is associated with project waitlist.
Department Manager Project and Process Management is responsible for project waitlist.
Change Request Decision updates project waitlist.
Projects Planning updates project waitlist.
Project Presentation uses project waitlist.
Project Portfolio Planning uses project waitlist.
Project Priorisation uses project waitlist.
Department Manager Project and Process Management is responsible for Project Release.
Department Manager Project and Process Management is responsible for Project Manager Assignment.
Department Manager is involved in Project Planning.
Project Release updates Project Portfolio.
Project Portfolio Planning updates Project Portfolio.
Project Priorisation uses Project Risk.
Jour Fixe Execution has the function component Project Monitoring.
Jour-fixe Execution CEO has the function component Project Monitoring.
Invoice Release updates Bill.
Invoice Verification updates Bill.
Invoice Release uses Bill.
Invoice Verification uses Bill.
Department Manager is involved in Invoice Verification.
Department Asisstant is responsible for Invoice Verification.
SAPFI supports Invoice Verification.
Project Portfolio Planning updates Resource Plan.
SAP Enterprise Resource Planning has the entity type component SAP Controlling.
SAP Enterprise Resource Planning has the entity type component SAPCO.
SAPERP has the entity type component SAP Controlling.
SAPERP has the entity type component SAPCO.
SAP Enterprise Resource Planning has the entity type component SAPFI.
SAPERP has the entity type component SAPFI.
SAP Enterprise Resource Planning has the entity type component .
SAPERP has the entity type component .
SAP Enterprise Resource Planning has the entity type component SAP Material Management.
SAPERP has the entity type component SAP Material Management.
Ticket Evaluation uses ticket.
Ticket Monitoring uses ticket.
Maintenance Contract Creation updates Maintenance Contract.
Maintenance Contract Release uses Maintenance Contract.
Department Asisstant is involved in Maintenance Contract Release.
Department Asisstant is involved in Maintenance Contract Creation.
Project Management updates Project.
Project Review uses Project.
Contractor is involved in Project Management.
Project Management has the function component Project Monitoring.
Contractor approves Project Order.
Project Management updates Project Plan.
Project Management uses Project Plan.
Project Management has the function component Project Planning.
Project Management uses Resource.
Bid has the entity type component Price.
Project Management uses Project Management Triangle.
Contractor approves Service Level Agreement.
Project Management uses Time.
Contractor is responsible for Accepting a Project Order.
Project Review uses Checklist for Project Review.
Project Review has the function component Content Review.
Contractor is involved in Definition of Project Goals.
Contractor approves Evaluation Plan.
Bid has the entity type component Implementation Concept.
Project Order has the entity type component Name and Address of Contractor.
Project Order has the entity type component Name and Address of Sponsor.
Project Review has the function component Organizational Review.
Contractor is responsible for Project Approval.
Project Order has the entity type component Project Background and Goal.
Project Management has the function component Project Directing.
Contractor approves Project Goal.
Project Order has the entity type component Project Specification.
Project Review updates Project Team Meeting.
Contractor is responsible for Qualification Criterion.
Project Management uses Reference Model for Tactical Management of Information Systems.
Project Order has the entity type component Signature of Contractor.
Project Order has the entity type component Signature of Sponsor.
chief information officer is responsible for Procurement Release.
chief information officer is involved in CAB execution.
chief information officer is involved in Jour Fixe Execution.
chief information officer is involved in Jour-fixe Execution CEO.
chief information officer is responsible for IT General Ledger Account Planning.
chief information officer is responsible for IT strategy development.
project waitlist has the entity type component Project.
chief information officer is responsible for Project Budget.
chief information officer is involved in Project Budget Administration.
chief information officer is responsible for Project Presentation.
chief information officer approves Project Definition.
chief information officer is responsible for Project Escalation.
chief information officer is responsible for project waitlist.
chief information officer is responsible for Project Release.
chief information officer is responsible for Project Manager.
chief information officer is responsible for Project Manager Assignment.
chief information officer is responsible for Project Priorisation.
chief information officer is responsible for Project Monitoring.
chief information officer is responsible for Invoice Release.
chief information officer is involved in Invoice Verification.
incident taking updates ticket.
chief information officer is involved in Ticket Evaluation.
chief information officer is responsible for Ticket Evaluation.
chief information officer is responsible for Maintenance Contract Release.
Capability Maturity Model Integration has the entity type component 1 - Initial.
Capability Maturity Model Integration has the entity type component 2 - Managed.
Capability Maturity Model Integration has the entity type component 3 - Defined.
Capability Maturity Model Integration has the entity type component 4 - Quantitatively Managed.
Capability Maturity Model Integration has the entity type component 5 - Optimizing.
Continuous Auditing is associated with American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
Creation of Information Management Concept updates operational structure.
Development of IT-Strategy has the function component business-IT-alignment.
Architecture Principle is associated with Architecture.
Architecture Principle is associated with Description Function of an Architecture.
Architecture is based on Architecture Principle.
Description Function of an Architecture is based on Architecture Principle.
Business Architecture has the entity type component Task Bearer.
Business Architecture has the entity type component task bearer.
Competence is associated with Task Bearer.
Competence is associated with task bearer.
Asset Management updates Production Facility.
BPML is based on BPMN.
BPMI is responsible for BPMN.
Continuous Auditing is associated with Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Capability Maturity Model Integration is associated with Capability Maturity Model.
Control Objective is associated with COBIT.
Asset Management uses Controlling.
Corporate Information Security Officer is responsible for CISO.
Administrative Information Management Task updates Data System.
Administrative Information Management Task uses Data System.
Administrative Information Management Task updates Business Process.
Administrative Information Management Task uses Business Process.
BSI is responsible for GSTOOL.
Creation of Information Management Concept updates Information Management Concept.
Creation of Information Management Concept uses information management model.
Business Architecture has the entity type component stream of information.
Business-IT alignment is associated with Potential for Innovation.
Corporate Governance of IT is associated with IT deployment.
Business-IT alignment updates IT deployment.
Business-IT alignment uses IT deployment.
Corporate Governance has the entity type component Corporate Governance of IT.
Creation of Information Management Concept uses IT mission statement.
Development of IT-Strategy uses IT mission statement.
Business-IT alignment uses IT goal.
Administrative Information Management Task updates information infrastructure component.
Administrative Information Management Task uses information infrastructure component.
Business Architecture is associated with cooperation partner.
Cost Management updates Cost Item.
Cost management updates Cost Item.
Cost Management uses Cost Item.
Cost management uses Cost Item.
Business Architecture has the entity type component management structure.
Business Architecture is associated with vendor.
Business Model is based on Production Factor.
COBIT Function uses RACI Diagram.
Creation of Information Management Concept uses Reference Model.
Creation of Information Management Concept uses reference model.
COBIT Function uses capability maturity model.
Cooperation increases soft skills.
Administrative Information Management Task uses strategic IT plan.
Development of IT-Strategy uses strategic IT objective.
Business-IT alignment uses strategic goal.
Architecture is associated with The Open Group Architecture Framework.
Description Function of an Architecture is associated with The Open Group Architecture Framework.
Business Model is based on Corporate Strategy.
Business Model is based on corporate strategy.
Business-IT alignment updates Corporate Strategy.
Business-IT alignment updates corporate strategy.
Business-IT alignment uses Corporate Strategy.
Business-IT alignment uses corporate strategy.
Competitive Benchmarking uses Competitive Benchmarking.
Business Architecture is associated with competitor.
Bausteine des Wissensmanagement has the function component Knowledge Development.
Bausteine des Wissensmanagement has the function component Knowledge Acquisition.
Competence is involved in Knowledge Management.
CKO is responsible for Knowledge Management.
Chief Knowledge Officer is responsible for Knowledge Management.
Bausteine des Wissensmanagement has the function component Wissenstransfer.
Competitive Advantage is associated with BD.
Corporate Success is based on Success Factor.
Corporate Success is based on Success Potential.
Contract has the entity type component blanket agreement.
Corporate Strategy has the entity type component Quality Policy.
Contract decreases Risk.
Contract decreases risk.
Critical Competitive Factor is associated with Corporate Success.
Critical Competitive Factor is associated with corporate success.
Contract Inventory has the entity type component Contract.
Contract Inventory has the entity type component contract.
Corporate Strategy has the entity type component Competitive Strategy.
Corporate Strategy has the entity type component competative strategy.
Artificial Intelligence is associated with Knowledge Management.
Request for Change key Data Object Change Control Component.
Defect key Data Object Defect Component.
Incident key Data Object Incident Component.
Job is associated with Organizational Unit.
Helpdesk is responsible for First-Level Support.
Evaluation Criterion is associated with Level of Target Achievement.
Operator is involved in System Handover.
IT mission statement has the entity type component Security.
ITGI is responsible for COBIT.
Information Infrastructure is associated with Cloud Computing.
Lückenanalyse is associated with Controlling.
IT Controller is involved in Controlling.
Electronic Data Interchange is based on Data.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component Development Method.
Inspection Analysis uses Success Factor.
Information Infrastructure is based on Information Management Concept.
Information Management Concept is based on information management model.
Intrapersonal Information Behavior is associated with Information Reception.
Intrapersonal Information Behavior is associated with information reception.
Information Need is based on Information Requirement.
Information Demand is based on Information Requirement.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component Information Law Infrastructure.
Information Behavior has the entity type component Interpersonal Information Behavior.
Information Behavior has the entity type component intrapersonel informations behavior.
Information Behaviour has the entity type component Interpersonal Information Behavior.
Information Behaviour has the entity type component intrapersonel informations behavior.
Information Behavior has the entity type component Intrapersonal Information Behavior.
Information Behavior has the entity type component interpersonel information behavior.
Information Behaviour has the entity type component Intrapersonal Information Behavior.
Information Behaviour has the entity type component interpersonel information behavior.
IT-Abteilung is responsible for IT Service.
ITGI approves Corporate Governance of IT.
IT Governance Function uses principle of IT governance.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component information infrastructure component.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component guideline.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component management system.
Information Behavior has the entity type component Human-Computer Information Behavior.
Information Behavior has the entity type component human-computer information behavior.
Information Behaviour has the entity type component Human-Computer Information Behavior.
Information Behaviour has the entity type component human-computer information behavior.
Measuring updates measured value.
Measuring uses Measuring Instrument.
Measuring uses measuring instrument.
Green IT is associated with sustainable thinking.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component Norm.
Information Requirement has the entity type component Objective Information Requirement.
Lower Management is responsible for Operational Information Management.
Lower Management includes Operator.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component organizational infrastructure.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component physical infrastructure.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component Reference Model.
Information Infrastructure has the entity type component reference model.
Information Management Concept is based on real objective.
Motivation increases soft skills.
Information Requirement has the entity type component Information Need.
IT mission statement is based on corporate mission statement.
Explanatory Model is based on cause-effect relationship.
Job Description has the entity type component Requirements Profile.
Enterprise Architecture has the entity type component Application Architecture.
Job Description has the entity type component Task Profile.
Enterprise Architecture has the entity type component Data Architecture.
Objective has the entity type component Goal.
Objective has the entity type component formal objective.
Knowledge Management is associated with Management Task.
Enterprise Architecture has the entity type component Business Architecture.
Information Need has the entity type component Information Demand.
Enterprise Architecture has the entity type component Information Systems Architecture.
Knowledge Management uses Innovation.
Knowledge Management uses innovation.
Knowledge Development uses Creativity Technique.
Knowledge Development uses creativity technique.
Objective has the entity type component real objective.
Enterprise Architecture has the entity type component Software Architecture.
Enterprise Architecture has the entity type component software architecture.
Enterprise Architecture is based on strategic goal.
Goal Setting uses strategic goal.
Enterprise Architecture has the entity type component infrastructure architecture.
OMG is responsible for UML.
Knowledge Management uses Corporate Culture.
Knowledge Management updates Knowledge.
Knowledge Management uses Knowledge.
Knowledge Development updates Knowledge Gap.
Knowledge Acquisition updates Knowledge Gap.
Knowledge Management updates Knowledge Gap.
Knowledge Management uses Knowledge Gap.
Goal System has the entity type component Objective.
Goal System has the entity type component objective.
Release updates Application System.
Risk Analysis uses Creativity Technique.
Tendering uses Functional Specification Document.
Project Organization is associated with Project Team.
Tendering uses Tender.
Tendering uses Award Criterion.
Tendering uses Law for Awarding.
Tendering uses Procurement Directive.
Project Organization has the entity type component Project Communication.
Tendering has the function component Publication of Tender.
Risk Analysis uses Risk Analysis Factor.
Risk Analysis updates Risk Plan.
QM uses Architecture.
QM uses Description Function of an Architecture.
Security Management uses Architecture.
Security Management uses Description Function of an Architecture.
Task Bearer is involved in Function.
Task Bearer is responsible for Function.
Task Analysis uses Function.
Task Profile is associated with Task Bearer.
Task Profile is associated with task bearer.
Verwaltung des Technologiebestand updates Production Facility.
Risk Analysis uses CRAMM.
Situation Analysis uses Consumer Resource Life Cycle.
Steering Committee is involved in Controlling.
Verwaltung des Technologiebestand uses Controlling.
QM uses Service.
Project Organization uses Evaluation Criterion.
Steering Committee is responsible for Information Management Task.
Task Analysis updates Information Requirement.
Performance Potential is associated with Information Function.
Performance Potential is associated with information function.
QM uses Information Infrastructure.
QM uses information infrastructure.
Success Potential is based on innovation ability.
Responsible Accountable Consulted and Informed is associated with Corporate Governance of IT.
QM updates Corporate Governance of IT.
Performance Potential is associated with Performance.
Performance Potential is associated with performance.
Success Potential is based on Performance Potential.
Success Potential is based on performance potential.
QM uses Product.
Steering Committee is responsible for Project Planning.
Steering Committee is responsible for Machbarkeitsstudie.
Review is associated with Process.
QM uses Process.
Training increases Qualification.
Training increases qualification.
QM has the function component Quality Control.
QFD updates Quality Characteristic.
QM has the function component Quality Planning.
QM updates Quality Policy.
QM has the function component quality assurance.
QM has the function component Quality Improvement.
Quality Policy has the entity type component Quality Objective.
Quality Planning uses Quality Objective.
Quality Planning uses Resource.
Risk Analysis updates Risk.
Risk Analysis updates risk.
Responsible Accountable Consulted and Informed is associated with Role.
Responsible Accountable Consulted and Informed is associated with role.
Pacemaker Technology is associated with key technology.
Use-Case Diagram has the entity type component software system.
Software Architecture is associated with software system.
Requirements Profile is associated with position.
Role is associated with position.
Performance Potential is associated with Corporate Success.
Performance Potential is associated with corporate success.
QM updates procedural model.
QM updates procedure model.
Rationalization uses Objective.
Rationalization uses objective.
TOGAF has the entity type component architecture framework.
Test is associated with Product.
TOGAF Architecture Devolopment Method has the entity type component Requirements Management.
TOGAF has the entity type component TOGAF Architecture Devolopment Method.
Strategic IT Objective is associated with Corporate Strategy.
Strategic IT Objective is associated with corporate strategy.
Val IT process or key management practice increases Val IT domain.
Val IT process or key management practice uses Val IT Principle.
TOGAF has the entity type component tool.
Requirement key Data Object Requirement Component.
Test Case key Data Object Test Component.
Commissioning uses Application System.
Control View is based on Business Process Modeling Method.
Business Process Modelling uses Business Process Modeling Method.
Central Computer and Telecommunications Agency is responsible for ITIL Version 2.
Central Computer and Telecommunications Agency is responsible for ITIL Version 3.
Bid Comparison uses Bid.
Creation of Final Report updates Final Report.
Accepting a Project Order uses Project Order.
Creation of Final Report uses Project Plan.
Computer-Based Application System is based on Software Product.
Adaptation uses Software Product.
ARIS is associated with Business Process.
Business Process Modelling uses Business Process.
ARIS has the entity type component Control View.
Critical Path Calculation updates Critical Path.
ARIS is associated with Event-Driven Process Chain.
Commissioning uses Functional Specification Document.
Bid Comparison uses Functional Specification Document.
Bid Prioritization uses Functional Specification Document.
ARIS has the entity type component Functional View.
Creation of Schedule uses Gantt Chart.
5-Level-Method for Systematic Structural Planning has the entity type component Goal.
Cross-linked Gantt Chart has the entity type component Milestone.
Application Administrator is responsible for Organizational Development.
5-Level-Method for Systematic Structural Planning has the entity type component Project Motivation.
Computer-Based Application System Operation uses Service Level Agreement.
Bid Comparison uses Spider Chart.
5-Level-Method for Systematic Structural Planning has the entity type component Subject.
5-Level-Method for Systematic Structural Planning has the entity type component Task.
Bid Comparison uses Tender.
Commissioning updates Acceptance Report.
Analysis Report Creation updates Analysis Report.
Analyst Team is responsible for Analysis Report Creation.
Analysis Report Creation updates Assessment Report.
Bid Prioritization uses Award Criterion.
Bid Comparison has the function component Bid Prioritization.
Bid Comparison uses Cost Analysis.
Buffer Time Calculation uses Cross-linked Gantt Chart.
Creation of Schedule uses Cross-linked Gantt Chart.
Critical Path Calculation uses Cross-linked Gantt Chart.
ARIS has the entity type component Data View.
Critical Path Calculation updates Earliest Project End Date.
Critical Path Calculation updates Earliest Project Start Date.
Application Administrator is responsible for Execution of Training Course.
Analyst Team is involved in Exploratory Discussion.
Service Contract is associated with Failure Safety.
Analyst Team is involved in Information Acquisition.
Analyst Team is responsible for Information Acquisition.
Analyst Team is responsible for Information System Modeling.
Buffer Time Calculation uses Net Plan.
Creation of Schedule uses Net Plan.
Critical Path Calculation uses Net Plan.
Commissioning uses Oral Presentation.
ARIS has the entity type component Organizational View.
Analyst Team is involved in Preparation and Modeling.
Analyst Team is responsible for Preparation and Modeling.
Bid Prioritization updates Prioritized Bid List.
Bid Comparison has the function component Product Presentation.
Bid Comparison has the function component Proficiency Testing of Vendors.
Creation of Final Report uses Progress Document.
Creation of Schedule updates Project Duration.
Checklist for Project Review has the entity type component Project Review Planning Section.
Checklist for Project Review has the entity type component Project Review Preparation Section.
Checklist for Project Review has the entity type component Project Review Wrap-Up Section.
Creation of Schedule updates Project Schedule.
5-Level-Method for Systematic Structural Planning has the entity type component Project Scope.
Bid Comparison uses Reference Visit.
Complete Survey increases Representativity of Results.
Creation of Final Report uses Result Document.
Bid Comparison uses Sensitivity Analysis.
Analyst Team is responsible for System Analysis Planning.
Application Administrator is responsible for System Operation.
Analysis Plan has the entity type component Target value.
Bid Comparison has the function component Tender Opening.
Bid Comparison has the function component Tender Vetting.
Bid Comparison has the function component Test Installation.
Application Administrator is responsible for User Administration.
Application Administrator is responsible for User Support.
Application Administrator is responsible for User Support Concept.
Analyst Team is involved in Verification (System Analysis).
Analyst Team is responsible for Verification (System Analysis).
Critical Path has the entity type component Work Package.
5-Level-Method for Systematic Structural Planning has the entity type component Work Package.
Cross-linked Gantt Chart has the entity type component Work Package.
Buffer Time is associated with Work Package.
Commissioning uses Written Presentation.
organizational infrastructure has the entity type component operational structure.
bid analysis uses bid.
development project (function) uses Architecture.
development project (function) uses Description Function of an Architecture.
task bearer is involved in Function.
task bearer is responsible for Function.
task analysis uses Function.
competence is associated with Task Bearer.
competence is associated with task bearer.
management information is associated with BD.
project or organizational risk is associated with BD.
project risk is associated with BD.
information infrastructure is associated with Cloud Computing.
steering committee is involved in Controlling.
information infrastructure has the entity type component Development Method.
development project (function) uses development project.
project organization uses Evaluation Criterion.
action planning has the function component Lückenanalyse.
information management model is based on Goal.
information management model is based on formal objective.
information management model has the entity type component Information Management Task.
steering committee is responsible for Information Management Task.
operational structure is based on Information Management Concept.
information infrastructure is based on Information Management Concept.
interpersonel information behavior is associated with Information Reception.
interpersonel information behavior is associated with information reception.
information need is based on Information Requirement.
task analysis updates Information Requirement.
performance potential is associated with Information Function.
performance potential is associated with information function.
distribution of information uses Information Infrastructure.
distribution of information uses information infrastructure.
communication uses Information Infrastructure.
communication uses information infrastructure.
information infrastructure has the entity type component Information Law Infrastructure.
cognition decreases information overload.
methodology of Information Management is based on innovative thinking.
information behavior has the entity type component Interpersonal Information Behavior.
information behavior has the entity type component intrapersonel informations behavior.
information behavior has the entity type component Intrapersonal Information Behavior.
information behavior has the entity type component interpersonel information behavior.
cognition updates Intrapersonal Information Behavior.
cognition updates interpersonel information behavior.
current architecture is based on current system.
performance measurement uses IT goal.
information infrastructure has the entity type component information infrastructure component.
performance potential is associated with Performance.
performance potential is associated with performance.
information infrastructure has the entity type component guideline.
information infrastructure has the entity type component management system.
information behavior has the entity type component Human-Computer Information Behavior.
information behavior has the entity type component human-computer information behavior.
measuring updates measured value.
measuring uses Measuring Instrument.
measuring uses measuring instrument.
information management model has the entity type component method.
methodology of Information Management is based on sustainable thinking.
information infrastructure has the entity type component Norm.
information infrastructure has the entity type component organizational infrastructure.
project manager is responsible for project.
project manager is associated with project controlling.
project manager is associated with Project Organization.
project manager is associated with project organization.
action planning has the function component Project Planning.
action planning has the function component Machbarkeitsstudie.
project controlling has the function component Project Planning.
project controlling has the function component Machbarkeitsstudie.
steering committee is responsible for Project Planning.
steering committee is responsible for Machbarkeitsstudie.
methodology of Information Management is based on process orientation.
methodology of Information Management is based on quality awareness.
information infrastructure has the entity type component physical infrastructure.
information infrastructure has the entity type component Reference Model.
information infrastructure has the entity type component reference model.
information management model is based on real objective.
cooperation increases soft skills.
motivation increases soft skills.
department includes position.
action planning uses Strategy.
action planning uses strategy.
methodology of Information Management is based on systems thinking.
critical competitive factor is associated with Corporate Success.
critical competitive factor is associated with corporate success.
performance potential is associated with Corporate Success.
performance potential is associated with corporate success.
innovation ability is based on Corporate Culture.
business-IT-alignment uses Competitive Strategy.
business-IT-alignment uses competative strategy.
methodology of Information Management is based on thrift.
innovation ability decreases Technological Trajectory.
innovation ability decreases technological trajectory.
innovation ability increases Technological Trajectory.
innovation ability increases technological trajectory.
job description has the entity type component Requirements Profile.
infrastructure architecture is associated with Application System.
procedural model updates Architecture.
procedural model updates Description Function of an Architecture.
procedure model updates Architecture.
procedure model updates Description Function of an Architecture.
quality management uses Architecture.
quality management uses Description Function of an Architecture.
strategic information management uses Architecture.
strategic information management uses Description Function of an Architecture.
job description has the entity type component Task Profile.
key technology is associated with basic technology.
strategic match is associated with BD.
strategie match is associated with BD.
competitive response is associated with BD.
competitive advantage is associated with BD.
situation analysis uses Consumer Resource Life Cycle.
strategic information management has the function component Controlling.
apply Sarbanes-Oxley Act increases Corporate Governance.
quality management uses Service.
strategic IT planning has the function component Development of IT-Strategy.
corporate success is based on Success Factor.
corporate success is based on Success Potential.
objective has the entity type component Goal.
objective has the entity type component formal objective.
process orientation is associated with Business Process.
strategic information management is associated with Information Function.
strategic information management is associated with information function.
strategic information management updates Information Infrastructure.
strategic information management updates information infrastructure.
quality management uses Information Infrastructure.
quality management uses information infrastructure.
strategic IT plan has the entity type component Information System Plan.
strategic IT plan has the entity type component information system plan.
quality management updates Corporate Governance of IT.
information management goal is based on IT mission statement.
information management goal is associated with IT goal.
value delivery decreases Costs.
value delivery decreases costs.
thrift is associated with Costs.
thrift is associated with costs.
contract has the entity type component blanket agreement.
strategic IT planning has the function component action planning.
value delivery increases Benefit.
value delivery increases benefit.
thrift is associated with Benefit.
thrift is associated with benefit.
copyright has the entity type component Usufructuary Right.
copyright has the entity type component usufructuary right.
quality management uses Product.
capability maturity model is associated with Process.
quality management uses Process.
training increases Qualification.
training increases qualification.
quality management has the function component Quality Control.
strategic information management has the function component QM.
strategic information management has the function component quality management.
quality management has the function component Quality Planning.
corporate strategy has the entity type component Quality Policy.
quality management updates Quality Policy.
quality management has the function component quality assurance.
quality management has the function component Quality Improvement.
resource management uses Resource.
contract decreases Risk.
contract decreases risk.
objective has the entity type component real objective.
apply Sarbanes-Oxley Act uses SOX.
future technology is associated with key technology.
pacemaker technology is associated with Pacemaker Technology.
pacemaker technology is associated with future technology.
strategic information management has the function component Security Management.
strategic IT planning has the function component Situation Analysis.
strategic IT planning has the function component situation analysis.
software architecture is associated with software system.
target architecture is based on Target System.
target architecture is based on target system.
role is associated with position.
position is associated with Stellenbeschreibung.
strategic information management has the function component strategic IT planning.
strategic information management has the function component strategic IT directing.
strategic information management has the function component strategic IT monitoring.
strategic IT planning updates strategic IT plan.
strategic IT objective is based on strategic goal.
strategic alignment uses strategic goal.
target planning uses strategic goal.
contract inventory has the entity type component Contract.
contract inventory has the entity type component contract.
quality management updates procedural model.
quality management updates procedure model.
corporate strategy has the entity type component Competitive Strategy.
corporate strategy has the entity type component competative strategy.
quality assurance uses Certification.
goal system has the entity type component Objective.
goal system has the entity type component objective.
rationalization uses Objective.
rationalization uses objective.
strategic IT planning has the function component Goal Setting.
strategic IT planning has the function component target planning.
goal hierarchy has the entity type component Goal System.
goal hierarchy has the entity type component goal system.
Build Key Data Object key Data Object Build Component.
Build Package key Data Object Build Package Component.
Chargeback Contract key Data Object Chargeback / Showback Component.
Actual Service CIs service Model Backbone Data Object Configuration Management Component.
Build Package Component supports Creation Of Build Packages.
Build Component supports Creation Of Builds.
Enterprise Architecture Component supports Creation Of Lonterm ITInvestment.
Enterprise Architecture Component supports Execution Plan Of Action.
Desired Service Model service Model Backbone Data Object Fulfillment Execution Component.
Conceptual Service entity Relationship IT Budget.
Build Package Component supports Management Of Build Packages.
Build Component supports Management Of Builds.
Enterprise Architecture Component supports Management Of Lonterm ITInvestment.
Conceptual Service entity Relationship Policy.
Enterprise Architecture Component is associated with Service Architecture.
Enterprise Architecture Component updates Service Architecture.
Enterprise Architecture Component uses Service Architecture.
Enterprise Architecture Component key Data Object Service Architecture.
Enterprise Architecture Component conceptual Service Blueprint Service Portfolio Component.
Conceptual Service service Model Backbone Data Object Service Portfolio Component.
Conceptual Service Blueprint service Model Backbone Data Object Service Portfolio Component.
Conceptual Service is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Conceptual Service Blueprint is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Enterprise Architecture Component is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Cost Modeling Component auxiliary Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Enterprise Architecture Component key Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Policy Component supports Approval Of ITPolicies.
Policy Component supports Audit Of ITPolicies.
Service Catalog Entry key Data Object Catalog Composition Component.
Service Architecture entity Relationship Conceptual Service.
Policy policy To Conceptual Service Conceptual Service.
Service Architecture service Architecture To Conceptual Service Conceptual Service.
Service Portfolio Component service Model Backbone Data Object Conceptual Service.
Service Portfolio Component service Model Backbone Data Object Conceptual Service Blueprint.
IT Cost Model key Data Object Cost Modeling Component.
Project Component supports Creation Of ITInitiatives.
Policy Component supports Creation Of ITPolicies.
Proposal Component supports Creation Of Scope Agreements For Projects.
Source Control Component supports Creation Of Source Code.
Service Design Component supports Design Of Logical Services Blueprints.
Run Book key Data Object Diagnostics & Remediation Component.
Strategy To Portfolio has the entity type component Enterprise Architecture Component.
Service Architecture is associated with Enterprise Architecture Component.
Service Architecture key Data Object Enterprise Architecture Component.
Fulfillment Request key Data Object Fulfillment Execution Component.
Functional Component current Practice Engagement Dataflow Functional Component.
Functional Component engagement Dataflow Functional Component.
Value Stream functional Component Functional Component.
Functional Component record Fabric Integration Functional Component.
Project Component is associated with IT Initiative.
Project Component updates IT Initiative.
Project Component uses IT Initiative.
IT Budget key Data Object IT Investment Portfolio Component.
Portfolio Demand Component supports Management Of Demands.
Project Component supports Management Of ITInitiatives.
IT Investment Portfolio Component supports Management Of ITInvestments.
Policy Component supports Management Of ITPolicies.
Proposal Component supports Management Of ITProposals.
Problem Component supports Management Of Problems.
Requirement Component supports Management Of Requirements.
Service Portfolio Component supports Management Of Service Portfolio.
Source Control Component supports Management Of Source Code.
Shopping Cart auxiliary Data Object Offer Consumption Component.
Offer key Data Object Offer Management Component.
Policy Component updates Policy.
Policy Component uses Policy.
Policy key Data Object Policy Component.
Portfolio Demand Component is associated with Portfolio Backlog Item.
Portfolio Demand Component updates Portfolio Backlog Item.
Portfolio Demand Component uses Portfolio Backlog Item.
Portfolio Backlog Item is associated with Portfolio Demand Component.
Portfolio Backlog Item key Data Object Portfolio Demand Component.
Problem Component portfolio Backlog Item Portfolio Demand Component.
Problem/Known Error key Data Object Problem Component.
IT Initiative key Data Object Project Component.
Proposal Component scope Agreement Project Component.
IT Asset Management assets (availability) Proposal Component.
Labor Management competency (availability) Proposal Component.
Scope Agreement key Data Object Proposal Component.
Portfolio Demand Component portfolio backlog item (rationalized/prioritized) Proposal Component.
Service Release service Model Backbone Data Object Release Composotion Component.
Service Release Blueprint service Model Backbone Data Object Release Composotion Component.
Request key Data Object Request Realisation Component.
Subscription key Data Object Request Realisation Component.
Requirement Component is associated with Requirement.
Requirement Component updates Requirement.
Requirement Component uses Requirement.
Policy entity Relationship Requirement.
Policy policy To Requirement Functional Component Requirement.
Policy Component supports Review Of ITPolicies.
Proposal Component updates Scope Agreement.
Proposal Component uses Scope Agreement.
Logical Service Blueprint service Model Backbone Data Object Service Design Component.
Service Contract key Data Object Service Level Component.
Service Monitor key Data Object Service Monitoring Component.
Policy Component policy Service Portfolio Component.
Source key Data Object Source Control Component.
Policy is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Policy Component is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Portfolio Backlog Item is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Portfolio Demand Component is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Proposal Component is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Scope Agreement is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Service Architecture is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
Service Portfolio Component is associated with Strategy To Portfolio.
IT Asset Management auxiliary Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
IT Investment Portfolio Component auxiliary Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Labor Management auxiliary Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Problem Component auxiliary Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Project Component auxiliary Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Requirement Component auxiliary Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Service Design Component auxiliary Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Policy Component key Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Portfolio Demand Component key Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Proposal Component key Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Service Portfolio Component key Functional Component Strategy To Portfolio.
Usage Record key Data Object Usage Component.
Maintenance of Application Systems updates Application System.
Roll Out updates Application System.
Roll-Out updates Application System.
Piloting uses Application System.
Roll Out uses Application System.
Roll-Out uses Application System.
Customization Testing uses Application System.
Definition of Introduction Strategy uses Application System.
Minute Taker is associated with Interview.
Interviewer is responsible for Interview.
Sponsor is involved in Project Execution.
Sponsor is responsible for Project Execution.
Defining Project Organization is associated with Project Steering Committee.
Project Steering Committee approves Change Request.
Final Report Presentation uses Final Report.
Project Steering Committee approves Final Report.
Sponsor approves Final Report.
Project Steering Committee approves Interim Report.
Maintenance of Application Systems updates Maintenance Contract.
Program has the entity type component Project.
DIN 69901 is associated with Project.
Execution of Project Review uses Project.
Sponsor approves Project.
DIN 69901 is associated with Project Management.
Project Steering Committee is responsible for Project Management.
Project Team includes Project Manager.
Sponsor is responsible for Project Order.
Sponsor approves Project Order.
Formulation of a Project Idea updates Project Outline Proposal.
Final Report has the entity type component Project Plan.
Interim Report has the entity type component Project Plan.
Project Steering Committee approves Project Plan.
Sponsor approves Project Plan.
Project Team is involved in Project Review.
Project Management Triangle has the entity type component Resource.
Go-Live updates Software Product.
Installation uses Software Product.
Requirements Engineering uses Software Product.
Execution of Market Analysis uses Software Product.
Extended Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Activity.
Execution of Market Analysis updates Check List.
Execution of Market Analysis uses Check List.
Sponsor is involved in Commissioning.
Project Steering Committee is involved in Conflict Management.
Exploratory Discussion uses Creativity Technique.
Goal Definition uses Creativity Technique.
Definition of Authorization Concept uses Data Protection Law.
Final Report has the entity type component Discussion.
Elicitation updates Elicitation Form.
Elicitation uses Elicitation Form.
Spider Chart is based on Evaluation Criterion.
Evaluation Planning updates Evaluation Criterion.
Exploratory Discussion updates Evaluation Criterion.
Goal Definition updates Evaluation Criterion.
Goal Definition uses Evaluation Criterion.
Sponsor approves Evaluation Criterion.
Extended Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Event.
Execution of Market Analysis uses Functional Specification Document.
Sponsor approves Functional Specification Document.
Gantt Chart Analysis is associated with Gantt Chart.
Scheduling updates Gantt Chart.
Scheduling uses Gantt Chart.
Project Management Triangle is associated with Information Management.
Project Management Triangle is associated with Management of Information Systems.
Project Controlling uses Key Performance Indicator.
Formulation of a Project Idea uses Law.
Hybrid Project Organization has the entity type component Matrix Project Organization.
Gantt Chart has the entity type component Milestone.
Deadline List has the entity type component Milestone.
Detailed Planning has the entity type component Milestone.
Scheduling updates Milestone.
Defining and Scheduling Milestones updates Milestone.
Execution of Verification Meeting updates Model.
Execution of Verification Meeting uses Model.
Exploratory Discussion updates Objective of Analysis.
Definition of Target Value uses Objective of Analysis.
Observer is responsible for Observation.
Extended Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Organizational Unit.
Department is associated with Organizational Unit.
Roll Out updates Organizational Unit.
Roll-Out updates Organizational Unit.
Project Team is involved in Piloting.
Formulation of a Project Idea updates Project Idea.
Execution of Target-Performance Comparison uses Project Management Triangle.
DIN 69901 is associated with Project Organization.
Execution of a Project Organization Form updates Project Organization.
Execution of a Project Organization Form uses Project Organization.
Final Report has the entity type component Project Result.
Sponsor approves Project Result.
Decision and Contract Conclusion updates Purchase Contract.
Sponsor approves Purchase Contract.
Evaluation Planning has the function component Randomisation.
Entity-Relationship Model has the entity type component Relation.
Entity-Relationship-Model has the entity type component Relation.
Functional Specification Document has the entity type component Requirement.
Sponsor is responsible for Requirement.
Requirements Engineering updates Requirement.
Project Management Triangle has the entity type component Result.
Sponsor approves Roll Out.
Sponsor approves Roll-Out.
Sponsor approves Service Level Agreement.
Definition of Project Goals uses SMART.
Goal Definition uses SMART.
Defining Project Organization uses Stakeholder Analysis.
Evaluation Planning uses Stakeholder Analysis.
Execution of a Stakeholder Analysis uses Stakeholder Analysis.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Study Design.
Evaluation Planning updates Study Design.
Evaluation Planning uses Study Design.
Detailed Planning has the entity type component Task.
Execution of Market Analysis updates Tender.
Execution of Market Analysis uses Tender.
Department Staff is involved in Tendering.
Project Management Triangle has the entity type component Time.
Extended Event-Driven Process Chain has the entity type component Tool.
Functional Specification Document has the entity type component Use Case.
Operational Management of Information Systems has the function component Operational HIS Directing.
Operational Management of Information Systems has the function component Operational HIS Monitoring.
Operational Management of Information Systems has the function component Operational HIS Planning.
Installation updates Physical Data Processing System.
Project Team is involved in Project Initiation.
Sponsor is responsible for Project Initiation.
Formulation of a Project Idea uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Study Objective.
Evaluation Team is involved in System Evaluation.
Enterprise Modelling updates 3LGM² Model.
Detail Planning updates Analysis Plan.
Scheduling uses Analysis Plan.
Goal Definition uses Analysis Plan.
Sponsor approves Analysis Plan.
Final Report has the entity type component Analysis Report.
Goal Definition uses Analysis Report.
Definition of Authorization Concept updates Authorization Concept.
Customization Testing uses Authorization Concept.
Data Protection Officer approves Authorization Concept.
Execution of Project Review updates Checklist for Project Review.
Execution of Project Review uses Checklist for Project Review.
Decision and Contract Conclusion uses Commissioned Assessment.
Scheduling has the function component Creation of Schedule.
Data View is based on Data Modeling Method.
Data Modeling uses Data Modeling Method.
Scheduling updates Deadline List.
Project Steering Committee is involved in Decision and Contract Conclusion.
Decision and Contract Conclusion updates Decision for Bid.
Scheduling has the function component Defining and Scheduling Milestones.
Sponsor is responsible for Defining and Scheduling Milestones.
Sponsor is involved in Defining Project Organization.
Sponsor is involved in Definition of Project Goals.
Department Staff is involved in Detail Planning.
Definition of Introduction Strategy uses Diffusion of Innovation Theory.
Evaluation Report has the entity type component Discussion of the Results.
Evaluation Planning updates Evaluation Goal.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Evaluation Methods Section.
Execution of Project Review has the function component Evaluation of Communication.
Execution of Project Review has the function component Evaluation of Project Management.
Execution of Project Review has the function component Evaluation of Teamwork.
Execution of Project Review has the function component Evaluation of Technical Aspects.
Evaluation Planning updates Evaluation Plan.
Sponsor is involved in Evaluation Planning.
Department Staff is involved in Evaluation Planning.
Sponsor approves Evaluation Report.
Project Team is involved in Execution of Project Review.
Sponsor is involved in Exploratory Discussion.
Failure Concept increases Failure Safety.
Definition of Introduction Strategy updates Fallback Concept.
Roll Out uses Fallback Concept.
Roll-Out uses Fallback Concept.
Sponsor is involved in Final Report Presentation.
Final Report is based on Final Report Structure.
Department Staff is involved in Goal Definition.
Hybrid Project Organization has the entity type component Influence Project Organization.
Department is involved in Information Acquisition.
Department Staff is involved in Information Acquisition (Evaluation).
Detail Planning updates Information Acquisition Method.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Information Acquisition Methods Section.
Department Staff is involved in Information Acquisition (Specification).
Enterprise Modelling uses Information System Modeling Method.
Interim Report has the entity type component Interim Report Summary.
Definition of Target Value uses Internal Procedure Instruction.
Definition of Introduction Strategy updates Introduction Strategy.
Piloting uses Introduction Strategy.
Roll Out uses Introduction Strategy.
Roll-Out uses Introduction Strategy.
Definition of Introduction Strategy uses Introduction Strategy.
Go-Live uses Introduction Strategy.
Definition of Target Value uses Legal Regulation.
Final Report has the entity type component Management Summary.
Execution of Market Analysis uses Market Analysis.
Project Team is involved in Meeting Management.
Scheduling updates Net Plan.
Scheduling uses Net Plan.
Evaluation Planning updates Observational Equivalence.
Decision and Contract Conclusion uses Oral Presentation.
Organizational Structure is associated with Organization Chart.
Non-Computer-Based Application System is based on Organizational Rule.
Sponsor is responsible for Placing a Project Order.
Decision and Contract Conclusion uses Prioritized Bid List.
Project Steering Committee is involved in Project Approval.
Sponsor is responsible for Project Approval.
Sponsor is involved in Project Closure.
Definition of Project Goals updates Project Distinction.
Execution of a Project Organization Form has the function component Project Documentation.
Documentation Manager is responsible for Project Documentation.
SMART is associated with Project Goal.
Definition of Project Goals updates Project Goal.
Goal Definition updates Project Goal.
Sponsor approves Project Goal.
Sponsor is involved in Project Plan Approval.
Project Management Triangle is associated with Project Planning Method.
Final Report has the entity type component Project Progression.
Interim Report has the entity type component Project Progression.
Execution of Project Review updates Project Review Report.
Execution of a Kick-Off-Meeting updates Project Rule.
Detailed Planning has the entity type component Project Schedule.
Scheduling updates Project Schedule.
Exploratory Discussion updates Project Scope.
Goal Definition updates Project Scope.
Goal Definition uses Project Scope.
Sponsor is responsible for Project Team Coordination.
Sponsor is responsible for Project Team Leading.
Project Team includes Project Team Member.
Project Team is involved in Project Team Termination.
Project Steering Committee is involved in Project Work.
Exploratory Discussion updates Protocol of Exploratory Discussion.
Hybrid Project Organization has the entity type component Pure Project Organization.
Evaluation Report has the entity type component Recommendations and Outlook.
Random Sampling increases Representativity of Results.
Detailed Planning has the entity type component Resource Overview.
Elicitation Form Testing increases Response Rate.
Final Report Creation uses Result Document.
Sponsor is involved in Result Verification.
Department Staff is involved in Result Verification.
Evaluation Planning updates Sample Size.
Detail Planning updates Schedule for Elicitation.
Sponsor approves Schedule for Elicitation.
Scheduling uses Schedule Representation Method.
Go-Live uses Software Distribution.
Goal Definition updates Specification Plan.
Sponsor approves Specification Plan.
Roll Out updates Stop or Go Decision.
Roll-Out updates Stop or Go Decision.
Roll Out uses Stop or Go Decision.
Roll-Out uses Stop or Go Decision.
Randomisation increases Structural Equality.
Execution of Target-Performance Comparison increases Structural Equality.
Evaluation Planning updates Structural Equality.
Evaluation Report has the entity type component Study Conduct Section.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Study Entry Form.
Evaluation Report has the entity type component Study Evaluation Section.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Study Introduction.
Evaluation Report has the entity type component Study Introduction.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Study Motivation.
Evaluation Planning updates Study Motivation.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Study Planning.
Evaluation Report has the entity type component Study Planning Section.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Study Question.
Evaluation Planning updates Study Question.
Evaluation Plan has the entity type component Study Timing.
Sponsor is involved in System Analysis Planning.
Department is involved in System Analysis Planning.
Sponsor is involved in System Handover.
Goal Definition updates System Specification Method.
Goal Definition uses System Specification Method.
Scheduling has the function component Systematic Work Package Dependency Determination.
Sponsor approves Target Concept.
Domain Expert approves Target Concept.
Evaluation Planning uses Target-Performance Comparison.
Execution of Target-Performance Comparison uses Target-Performance Comparison.
Simulation is associated with Target State Model.
Definition of Target Value updates Target value.
Sponsor approves Target value.
Execution of a Kick-Off-Meeting increases Team Development.
Project Team is responsible for Team Formation.
Project Team is involved in Team Management.
Formulation of a Project Idea uses Technological Innovation.
Go-Live has the function component Test Operation.
Definition of Introduction Strategy updates Test Operation Specification.
Customization Testing uses Test Scenario.
Detailed Planning has the entity type component Time to Run.
Project Status Report has the entity type component Traffic Light Model.
Execution of Training Course uses Training Concept.
Execution of Verification Meeting updates Verification Protocol.
Sponsor is involved in Verification (Specification).
Department Staff is involved in Verification (Specification).
Domain Expert is involved in Verification (Specification).
Department is involved in Verification (System Analysis).
Department Staff is involved in Verification (System Analysis).
Domain Expert is involved in Verification (System Analysis).
Gantt Chart has the entity type component Work Package.
Detailed Planning has the entity type component Work Package.
Scheduling uses Work Package.
Scheduling has the function component Work Package Time Estimation.
Decision and Contract Conclusion uses Written Presentation.
Net Plan has the entity type component Critical Path.
Progress Document has the entity type component Guideline.
Organization Chart has the entity type component Organizational Unit.
Project Background and Goal has the entity type component Project Motivation.
Progress Document has the entity type component Protocol.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Quality Requirement.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Reaction Time.
Interim Report Summary has the entity type component Recommendation.
Organization Chart has the entity type component Staff.
Project Background and Goal has the entity type component Subject.
Progress Document has the entity type component To Do List.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Venue.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Confidentiality Provision.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Contract Duration.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Contract Object.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Customer Obligation.
Project Background and Goal has the entity type component Description of Current State.
Project Background and Goal has the entity type component Expected Project Benefit.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Incident Classification.
Progress Document has the entity type component Intermediate Result.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Notice Periods and Conditions.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Payment Terms.
Project Background and Goal has the entity type component Project Distinction.
Interim Report Summary has the entity type component Project Status.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Scope of Maintenance.
IT Service Contract has the entity type component Sponsor Obligation.
Preparation of Training Course uses Application System.
Organizational Preparation uses Business Process Modeling Method.
Preparation of Results uses Business Process Modeling Method.
Preparation of Results uses Cost-Benefit Analysis.
Information Acquisition (Evaluation) uses Interview.
Project Work has the function component Project Execution.
Project Execution Phase is associated with Project Execution.
Preparation of System Introduction has the function component Change Management.
Project Approval updates Final Report.
Project Closure updates Final Report.
Project Documentation updates Final Report.
Project Approval uses Final Report.
Interim Report Creation updates Interim Report.
Key User is involved in Maintenance of Application Systems.
IT Operation uses Operational Concept.
Project Approval updates Project.
Project Approval uses Project.
Project Closure uses Project.
Project Directing uses Project.
Project Marketing uses Project.
Project Specification has the entity type component Project Budget.
Placing a Project Order updates Project Order.
Project Plan Approval uses Project Order.
Placing a Project Order uses Project Outline Proposal.
Project Directing updates Project Plan.
Project Plan Approval updates Project Plan.
Project Plan Creation updates Project Plan.
Project Directing uses Project Plan.
Project Work has the function component Project Planning.
Project Team Member is involved in Project Planning.
Project Directing uses Resource.
Project Plan Summary has the entity type component Resource Plan.
IT Service Contract is associated with Sponsor.
IT Service Contract is associated with Contractor.
Information Process is associated with 3LGM² Information Process.
Project Module has the entity type component Activity.
Project Marketing increases Customer Satisfaction.
Preparation of Results uses Descriptive Statistics.
Information Acquisition (System Analysis) updates Elicitation Form.
Information Acquisition (System Analysis) uses Elicitation Form.
Preparation and Modelling uses Elicitation Form.
Literature Research updates Evaluation Criterion.
Planning of System Assessment updates Evaluation Criterion.
Planning of System Assessment uses Evaluation Criterion.
Preparation and Modeling uses Evaluation Criterion.
IT Staff is responsible for Functional Specification Document.
Preparation and Modeling (Specification) updates Functional Specification Document.
Milestone Trend Analysis is associated with Milestone.
Performing Milestone Trend Analysis uses Milestone.
Preparation and Modelling updates Model.
Information Acquisition (Evaluation) uses Observation.
Organizational Preparation updates Organizational Unit.
Polarity Profile Creation uses Product.
Product Presentation uses Product.
Project Document has the entity type component Project Initiation Document.
Project Specification has the entity type component Project Organization.
Preparation of Questionnaire updates Questionnaire.
Preparation of Written Survey updates Questionnaire.
Information Acquisition (Evaluation) has the function component Random Sampling.
Information Acquisition (Specification) uses Requirement.
Polarity Profile Creation uses Requirement.
Preparation and Modeling (Specification) uses Requirement.
Information Acquisition (Specification) has the function component Requirements Engineering.
Product Presentation uses Scenario.
Project Goal is associated with SMART.
Preparation of Results uses Spider Chart.
Preparation of Results uses SWOT Analysis.
Project Marketing increases Transparency.
Information Acquisition (Evaluation) uses Written Survey.
Preparation of Results uses Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Preparation and Modeling updates Information System Model.
Preparation and Modeling (Specification) updates Information System Model.
Project Work has the function component Project Initiation.
Investment Planning uses Strategic Information Management Plan.
Legal Expert is involved in System Selection.
Information Acquisition (Evaluation) uses Time Measurement.
Placing a Project Order has the function component Accepting a Project Order.
Project Progression has the entity type component Achievement of Objective.
Planning of System Assessment updates Analysis Plan.
Project Progression has the entity type component Budget Compliance.
Project Management Software supports Buffer Time Calculation.
Product Presentation updates Commissioned Assessment.
Project Approval has the function component Completion of Project Documentation.
Preparation of Results uses Cost Comparison.
Project Closure has the function component Creation of Final Report.
Project Management Software supports Critical Path Calculation.
Minimum Project Duration Calculation uses Cross-linked Gantt Chart.
Preparation and Modeling (Specification) uses Current State Model.
Information Acquisition (Evaluation) uses Data Stock Analysis.
Project Progression has the entity type component Deadline Compliance.
Project Team Member is involved in Defining Project Organization.
Planning of System Assessment has the function component Definition of Target Value.
Organizational Preparation uses Diffusion of Innovation Theory.
Information Acquisition (Evaluation) uses Evaluation Plan.
Preparation of Results updates Evaluation Report.
Project Closure has the function component Execution of Project Review.
Project Closure updates Final Protocol of Project Steering Committee.
Project Closure has the function component Final Report Presentation.
Information Acquisition (System Analysis) uses Information Acquisition Method.
Information Acquisition (Specification) uses Information Acquisition Method (Specification).
Information Acquisition updates Information Acquisition Result.
Preparation and Modeling uses Information Acquisition Result.
Information System Modeling uses Information System Modeling Method.
Preparation of Results uses Information System Modeling Method.
Organizational Preparation uses Interface Development.
Presentation of Intermediate Results updates Intermediate Result.
Preparation of Interview updates Interview Guideline.
Operational HIS Management has the function component IT Operation.
Project Team Leading updates Jour Fixe.
Project Team Leading uses Killer Phrase.
Organizational Preparation uses Legacy Data Transfer.
Polarity Profile Creation uses Level of Target Achievement.
Planning of System Assessment uses Method for System Assessment.
Minimum Project Duration Calculation updates Minimum Project Duration.
Project Management Software supports Minimum Project Duration Calculation.
Preparation and Modeling (Specification) uses Modeling Method.
Project Approval has the function component Monitoring of Defect Fixes.
Net Plan Analysis is associated with Net Plan.
Preparation of Observation updates Observation Form.
Organizational View is based on Organization Chart.
Preparation of System Introduction has the function component Organizational Preparation.
Preparation of Results uses Polarity Profile.
Preparation and Modeling uses Preparation and Modeling Method.
Preparation and Modelling uses Preparation and Modeling Method.
Preparation of System Introduction has the function component Preparation of Training Course.
Preparation of System Introduction has the function component Product Adaptation.
Project Handbook has the entity type component Progress Document.
Project Planning Progress Document has the entity type component Progress Document.
Project Documentation updates Progress Document.
Project Closure has the function component Project Approval.
Project Team Member is involved in Project Approval.
Project Plan Summary has the entity type component Project Background and Goal.
Project Work has the function component Project Closure.
Project Closure Phase is associated with Project Closure.
Project Document has the entity type component Project Closure Document.
Project Closure updates Project Cost.
Project Specification has the entity type component Project Deadline.
Project Progression has the entity type component Project Deviation.
Project Documentation updates Project Document.
Project Specification has the entity type component Project Duration.
Project Document has the entity type component Project Execution Document.
Project Execution Document has the entity type component Project Execution Progress Document.
Project Execution Document has the entity type component Project Execution Result Document.
Project Documentation increases Project Experience.
Project Background and Goal has the entity type component Project Goal.
Project Marketing uses Project Goal.
Project Approval has the function component Project Hand-Over.
Organizational Preparation has the function component Project Marketing.
Project Document has the entity type component Project Planning Document.
Project Marketing uses Project Progress.
Project Documentation increases Project Result Representation.
Project Closure updates Project Review Report.
Project Plan Summary has the entity type component Project Schedule.
Project Plan Approval uses Project Schedule.
Project Background and Goal has the entity type component Project Scope.
Project Documentation increases Project Team Communication.
Project Closure has the function component Project Team Termination.
Project Documentation increases Project Transparency.
Project Team Member is involved in Project Work.
Project Specification has the entity type component Release of Resources.
Project Directing has the function component Resource Coordination.
Project Handbook has the entity type component Result Document.
Project Planning Result Document has the entity type component Result Document.
Project Documentation updates Result Document.
Project Approval has the function component Review of Project Results.
Project Directing updates Risk Plan.
Project Plan Approval uses Risk Plan.
Preparation of Questionnaire updates Standardization Degree of Answer.
Preparation of Questionnaire updates Standardization Degree of Question.
Project Plan Approval uses Structural Plan.
Project Approval has the function component Subsequent Cost Management.
Product Presentation is associated with System Selection Method.
Preparation and Modeling (Specification) updates Target Concept.
Organizational Preparation uses Target Concept.
Preparation and Modeling (Specification) uses Target Concept.
Product Presentation uses Target Concept.
Preparation and Modeling (Specification) updates Target State Model.
Preparation of System Introduction has the function component Technical Preparation.
Preparation of Training Course updates Training Concept.
Preparation of Training Course updates Training Course.
Project Directing has the function component Trouble Shooting.
Project Team Leading updates Win-Win Situation.
Project Module has the entity type component Work Package.
Resource Planning uses Project.
Resource Planning updates Resource.
Resource Planning uses Resource.
Resource Planning updates Resource Plan.
Software Reference Model is associated with Software Product.
Specification Team includes Sponsor.
Specification Team is responsible for Functional Specification Document.
Risk Manager is responsible for Risk Analysis.
Specification Team includes User.
Response Rate is associated with Written Survey.
Selection Team is involved in System Selection.
Specification Team is involved in System Specification.
Specification Team is responsible for System Specification.
Specification Team includes Domain Expert.
Result Verification updates Evaluation Report.
Redundancy of Centralized Technical System is associated with Failure Safety.
Spider Chart Creation uses Level of Target Achievement.
Result Verification is associated with Meeting Management.
Result Verification uses Oral Presentation.
Resource Planning updates Personnel Expenditure.
Resource Planning updates Project Cost.
Resource Planning updates Project Schedule.
Resource Planning uses Project Schedule.
Specification Team includes Project Team Member.
Resource Planning uses Structural Plan.
Resource Planning updates Work Package.
Resource Planning uses Work Package.
UML Use Case Diagram has the entity type component Application System.
Technical Preparation updates Application System.
Test Operation updates Application System.
System Handover uses Application System.
Test Operation uses Application System.
Tactical Management of Information Systems updates Computer-Based Application System.
System Handover updates Handover Certificate.
Strategic Information Management Planning uses Hospital Goal.
System Handover updates Operational Concept.
System Operation uses Operational Concept.
Tactical Management of Information Systems updates Project.
Strategic Management of Information Systems uses Project.
Work Package Execution uses Project Plan.
Strategic Management of Information Systems has the function component Strategic HIS Planning.
Strategic Management of Information Systems has the function component Strategic Information Management Planning.
Strategic Information Management Planning updates Project Portfolio.
Work Package has the entity type component Activity.
Structural Planning uses Bottom-up Approach.
Verification (System Analysis) uses Completeness.
Verification (System Analysis) uses Correctness.
Structural Planning uses Creativity Technique.
System Assessment uses Creativity Technique.
System Administrator is responsible for Database Administration.
System Operation has the function component Error Management.
System Analysis and Assessment updates Evaluation Criterion.
System Analysis Planning updates Evaluation Criterion.
System Analysis and Assessment uses Evaluation Criterion.
System Analysis Planning uses Evaluation Criterion.
Verification (Specification) uses Evaluation Criterion.
Target Concept has the entity type component Functional Specification Document.
Verification (Specification) uses Functional Specification Document.
Stakeholder is involved in Information Management.
Stakeholder is involved in Management of Information Systems.
Target State is based on Information System.
Strategic Information Management Planning updates Information System.
Strategic Management of Information Systems updates Information System.
Strategic Information Management Planning uses Information System.
Strategic Management of Information Systems uses Information System.
System Analysis and Assessment uses Information System.
Verification (System Analysis) uses Integrity.
Tender has the entity type component Lot.
Target Concept has the entity type component Migration Path.
Work Package is associated with Milestone.
Verification (System Analysis) uses Model.
System Operation has the function component Network Management.
System Administrator is responsible for Network Management.
System Analysis Planning updates Objective of Analysis.
System Analysis Planning uses Objective of Analysis.
System Operation has the function component Organizational Development.
Three Layer Graph-Based Metamodel has the entity type component Physical Tool Layer.
Test Installation uses Product.
Structural Plan has the entity type component Project Motivation.
System Operation has the function component Reporting.
Structural Planning has the function component Scheduling.
Verification (Specification) is associated with Simulation.
Structural Plan has the entity type component Task.
Structural Planning updates Task.
Tender Opening uses Tender.
Task Allocation uses To Do List.
Structural Planning uses Top-down Approach.
UML Sequence Diagram has the entity type component UML Entity.
UML Use Case Diagram is associated with User.
User Support has the function component First-Level Support.
Verification (System Analysis) uses Information System Model.
Three Layer Graph-Based Metamodel has the entity type component Logical Tool Layer.
Technical Preparation updates Physical Data Processing System.
User Support has the function component Second-Level Support.
Supervisor is responsible for Second-Level Support.
Strategic Management of Information Systems has the function component Strategic HIS Directing.
Strategic Management of Information Systems has the function component Strategic HIS Monitoring.
Strategic Information Management Planning updates Strategic Information Management Plan.
System Analysis and Assessment has the function component System Analysis.
System Evaluation Module is associated with System Evaluation.
System Introduction Module is associated with System Introduction.
System Introduction Team is involved in System Introduction.
System Selection Module is associated with System Selection.
System Specification Module is associated with System Specification.
Tactical Management of Information Systems has the function component Tactical HIS Directing.
Tactical Management of Information Systems has the function component Tactical HIS Monitoring.
Tactical Management of Information Systems has the function component Tactical HIS Planning.
User Support has the function component Third-Level Support.
Structural Planning uses 5-Level-Method for Systematic Structural Planning.
Team Formation has the entity type component Adjourning Phase.
System Analysis and Assessment updates Analysis Plan.
System Analysis Planning updates Analysis Plan.
System Analysis and Assessment updates Analysis Report.
Technical Preparation updates Application System Interface.
System Operation has the function component Application System Maintenance.
System Supervisor approves Authorization Concept.
Tender has the entity type component Award Criterion.
Tender Arrangement has the entity type component Bid Deadline.
Tender Arrangement has the entity type component Bidding Type.
Test Installation updates Commissioned Assessment.
Time to Run Calculation uses Cross-linked Gantt Chart.
System Analysis and Assessment updates Current State Model.
Verification (Specification) uses Current State Model.
System Operation has the function component Data Backup.
Stakeholder is involved in Definition of Project Goals.
System Analysis Planning has the function component Detail Planning.
Technical Preparation uses Diffusion of Innovation Theory.
Three Layer Graph-Based Metamodel has the entity type component Domain Layer.
Tender has the entity type component Eligibility Criterion.
Tender Vetting uses Eligibility Criterion.
Study Director approves Evaluation Report.
System Operation has the function component Execution of Training Course.
Verification (System Analysis) has the function component Execution of Verification Meeting.
Team Formation has the entity type component Forming Phase.
Staff Council is involved in Goal Definition.
System Analysis and Assessment updates Information Acquisition Method.
System Analysis and Assessment uses Information Acquisition Method.
Staff Council approves Information Acquisition Method.
Tactical Management of Information Systems updates Information System Component.
System Analysis and Assessment uses Information System Component.
Technical Preparation uses Information System Modeling Method.
Technical Preparation uses Interface Development.
System Operation has the function component Interface Management.
System Administrator is responsible for Interface Management.
Technical Preparation uses Legacy Data Transfer.
System Operation has the function component Maintenance of Centralized Technical Components.
System Operation has the function component Maintenance of Decentralized Technical Components.
System Assessment uses Method for System Assessment.
Verification (Specification) uses Method of Verification.
System Analysis Planning updates Modeling Method.
Time to Run Calculation uses Net Plan.
Team Formation has the entity type component Norming Phase.
Team Formation has the entity type component Performing Phase.
Tactical Management of Information Systems updates Physical Data Processing Tool.
System Analysis Planning has the function component Planning of System Assessment.
Structural Plan has the entity type component Project Goal.
Target Definition is based on Project Goal.
Structural Planning updates Project Goal.
Structural Planning uses Project Goal.
Team Management uses Project Goal.
Stakeholder is involved in Project Marketing.
Structural Plan has the entity type component Project Scope.
Target Concept has the entity type component Project Scope.
System Analysis Planning updates Project Scope.
System Analysis Planning uses Project Scope.
Task Allocation updates RACI Matrix.
Tactical Management of Information Systems uses Reference Model for Tactical Management of Information Systems.
Targeted Selection increases Representativity of Results.
System Administrator is responsible for Server Administration.
Staff has the entity type component Staff Member.
Team Formation has the entity type component Storming Phase.
Structural Planning updates Structural Plan.
System Analysis and Assessment Module is associated with System Analysis and Assessment.
System Analysis and Assessment has the function component System Assessment.
System Analysis and Assessment has the function component System Assessment Planning.
Test Installation is associated with System Selection Method.
Verification (Specification) updates Target Concept.
System Development uses Target Concept.
User approves Target Concept.
Target Concept has the entity type component Target Definition.
Target Concept has the entity type component Target State Model.
Verification (Specification) uses Target State Model.
Tender has the entity type component Tender Arrangement.
Tender Arrangement has the entity type component Tender Structure.
Tender Arrangement has the entity type component Tender Type.
Test Operation uses Test Operation Specification.
Work Package Status Report has the entity type component Traffic Light Model.
System Operation has the function component User Administration.
System Operation has the function component User Support.
User Support uses User Support Concept.
User is involved in Verification (Specification).
System Operation has the function component Version Management.
Task has the entity type component Work Package.
Structural Plan has the entity type component Work Package.
Traffic Light Model has the entity type component Work Package.
Work Package Manager is responsible for Work Package.
Structural Planning updates Work Package.
Work Package Execution uses Work Package Description.
Work Package Manager is responsible for Work Package Execution.
Reference Model for Tactical Management of Information Systems has the entity type component Project Phase.
Reference Model for Tactical Management of Information Systems has the entity type component Project Module.
